And before I introduce our panelists, of
which we have two,
I'm going to do a little poll.
And those WHO are chatting, thank you.
I'm going to start with a little poll
that you're going to take part in.
So what I'm going to do, I'm going
to read something that I came across.
And I'm going to give you three options
to choose from where I found that quote.
And you're going to raise your hand and
tell me
which one you think is correct.
So listen carefully. The reality is that
young people want
to be included in the decision making,
not just to consume what has been prepared
by a few,
where they don't have any say or options.
So A, did I read it on the internet
in an open source manifesto from a young
technologist?
B, did I hear it in an interview from a
young street
protester giving the interview to the TV
reporter?
And C, did I witness it in this very
building
during the global digital compact
consultations
from a youth civil society organization?
So I'm going to read it again.
The reality is that young people want
to be included in the decision making,
not just to consume what has been prepared
by a few,
where they don't have any say or options.
Is it A, open source manifesto, B, TV
reporter,
street protester, or C, global digital
compact consultations?
Who thinks it's A? OK, WHO thinks it's B?
Who thinks it's C? That's amazing.
There was one person that said A. There
were two and a half
people that said B. And everyone else said
C. Now it's B.
So whoever-- there you go.
Yeah, right on the money.
So it was actually-- so I just have heard
it recently
from a young protester during the Nairobi
protests,
the Gen Z protests. And that was kind of
right after they
were gunned down by one of those water
cannons,
like the heavy duty police water cannons.
So yeah, so whoever said B, right on the
money.
But if you said A or C, you shouldn't
feel very bad about yourself, because to
be honest,
all of the three answers could be true.
So I'm going to read it again for the very
last time.
The reality is that young people want
to be included in the decision making,
not just to consume what has been prepared
by a few,
where they don't have any say or options.
So I heard the version of this sentiment
a lot when I've been working with the
young tech
entrepreneurs, social impact entrepreneurs
from Global South, developing and emerging
markets.
And I also have heard this sentiment
a lot, as apparently you have as well,
during the global digital compact
consultations.
Unice have conducted a poll last year,
where we wanted to understand how young
people feel
about their digital future.
And we ask them if they feel they have
control
and influence over how this digital future
will look like.
And 67% of young people said that they
have some little
or no control at all to how the digital
future will look like.
And so just like young people feel
that they're not included in the
non-digital,
in creating non-digital systems and
governance
and infrastructure as this kid from
Nairobi,
similarly young people feel that they're
not included
in creating the digital systems of
governance
and infrastructure of the future.
And so why does it matter?
I would say that it's rather optimistic
for us
to assume that all this digital public
infrastructure
that we're creating and spending so many
millions
of dollars on, we're assuming that the
next generation
will actually use. Perhaps quite the
country, perhaps in five or 10 years,
they will turn against us as this kid in
Nairobi,
having the same grievance that we just
heard.
So what does it all have to do with open
source?
I represent UNICEF's Office of Innovation,
and as Sunita, my colleague, said
yesterday at a high level
panel, our commitment to open source is
solid and it's clear.
We have a venture fund that supports open
source products
and open source only. We work with
partners and governments
to add open source elements to digital
apps
getting curricula in the global south.
And also we've been very vocal in the
global digital
compact consultations that open source
must be foundational
for the digital public infrastructure of
the future
if we want young people to be maintainers
and owners
of this digital public infrastructure.
From what I've seen working with young
people,
when they hear about open source,
they get a very clear signal about a
particular way
how technology can be built, WHO can build
it,
and on what kind of principles that tech
can be built.
The tech can be built in a way that gives
you power
or takes your power away.
The tech can allow for building digital
capacity,
local digital capacity, or it can entirely
disregard it.
Open source really makes young people
excited,
and it channels their optimists for tech,
and I think optimists for tech is in high
demand today.
So I will put this claim to you, and I'm
going to discuss it with my panelists,
that open source in young people is the
most important
intersection for the future of digital
transformation.
And I would perhaps even take it a step
further,
that it's the only intersection that
matters for just sustainable and fair
digital transformation
and digital future and digital public
infrastructure.
And so with that, I have two panelists WHO
graciously
agreed to discuss this. Who am I going to
introduce?
Ruth Ekega, coming all the way from Lagus.
Ruth is an open source program manager,
and program lead for GitHub's All in
Africa initiative.
All in Africa provides open source
education
to everyone, including young people across
Africa.
All in Africa aims at expanding open
source workforce
that can serve the African economy and
innovation.
Ruth, give it up for Ruth.
We also have Mark Pereira coming from
Trinidad and Tobago.
Mark is the founder of Z Labs and a
partner of Collectivo.
Z Labs builds software solutions,
runs software, boot comes for youth, and a
co-working space.
Z Labs are also recipients of UNICE
Adventure Fund seed
funding to build an open source Collectivo
mobile app,
part of the first cohort addressing
climate change.
Please. [APPLAUSE]
Can everyone hear me? Yes.
So the first question is for Mark.
I couldn't not begin with this question.
We had two briefing meetings with Mark and
Ruth,
and one specific phrase was kept coming up
from Mark.
So Mark, what's a crab in a barrel?
So yeah, the Caribbean audience, maybe
some other people
from the Global South would know--
I guess the global audience as well
would know about the crab mentality.
But I think it's a really good analogy
for how crabs exist naturally in an open
environment.
But when put in a closed environment, in a
barrel,
in a bucket, they try to exit.
There's no resources within it.
And it really represents a closed system.
What was an open system has come a closed
system,
and how the mentalities of the organisms
within it
react. And essentially, when one crab
tries to leave the barrel,
the others pull him down.
And it's a great way to start this
conversation,
because it just kind of shows the
juxtaposition
between open systems, open source
mentality, and closed systems.
And what we naturally do, which I think
is what the youths are armed with, is
collaborate.
Whereas if we put in an environment, a
closed environment,
then naturally we kind of battle against
each other,
compete and bring each other down.
So Mark, thanks for-- thank you for
describing the UN bureaucracy.
Can you tell us more about what you do,
what collectible is,
and how do you intersect with young people
in your work,
and what's the reason you got into it
that you saw too many crabs and too many
barrels?
Yeah, I grew up on an island.
There's a lot of crabs that run across the
road.
And then you end up in barrels.
And then I'm just like, this needs to stop
now.
An animal activist, it starts.
But now really and truly, I started off my
career.
Luckily, in a software development boot
camp,
it was really heavily pushing open source.
And that really resonated with me
throughout my entire career.
And everything that I did, and luckily for
me,
I got into the blockchain ecosystem.
And the people within the blockchain
ecosystem
really represent open source through and
through.
It's one of the industries where
I've just seen immense collaboration.
And a lot of sustainability, seeing
that when finance is accessible to all
how it changes people's minds around
abundance.
And just in terms of how people operate
and build
certain companies, along that way of being
in the blockchain ecosystem, I met a guy
called Luke Weaver from Cura Sour.
We're both from the Caribbean Islands.
And we both have passion for our countries
that lead us to focusing a lot of our
efforts
on how do we solve the most pressing
problems that exist.
And Luke is relentless on fighting climate
change,
climate action, and building communities,
and empowering them to do the same.
And that's where we really aligned with
the collectible wallet.
And specifically, the people WHO naturally
gravitate
towards this collectible ecosystem are the
youth.
So along the way, luckily, I also
need as any audience, we receive venture
funding
from UNICEF, given our goals with the
project
to empower youth to enable climate change
through rewards and incentives by our
blockchain wallet.
And yeah, that's essentially, in a
nutshell,
the journey of getting here today.
By the way, I didn't ask Mark to mention
UNICEF,
so thanks for the shout out.
So Ruth, you're running a continent-wide
initiative
on open source upskilling.
Can you tell us more about all in Africa,
and where's the young people's place in
the initiative?
Yeah, sure. First, it's my pleasure to be
here.
I feel like the youngest person in the
room.
But yeah, so I've had the four years
experience
in open source. And I think when I got
into open source,
I maybe I'll share a bit of that.
I was really lost as a new contributor,
trying to find the best place to place my
efforts.
And I found out that a couple of people
around me,
around me for my region, were also lost,
because they're also trying to break into
contributing
to open source. And then I started
advocating for beginners in open source
to find issues that they could easily
contribute to.
And four years later, I think Dimitris
really talked
about the all-in open source initiative,
earlier on the first panel.
And four years later, the all-in open
source initiative
was started by GitHub. And I think one of
those days, I had a call with Dimitris.
And I really love the idea of having
to give underrepresented people access to
opportunities
and even community to be able to find ways
to place their efforts. And I approached
her and I was like,
this is a really good idea.
And I would really love to see it come to
Africa.
And towards last year, she reached out
again to me.
And they were trying to internationally
expand
the program to Africa. And I was
opportunity to become the lead.
And then what is the all-in-Africa
initiative?
When they said all-in-Africa, I looked at
that term all-in.
And I'm from Nigeria. And that's a small
part.
That's just one country out of
40-something countries
in Africa. How do I bring everybody in
Africa into one program?
How do I represent everybody, even
though I'm in one small set of the
continents?
And then I looked at my network.
I've been doing open source for four
years.
And I have been opportunity to travel
around Africa,
to go to conferences, and meet people,
meet people that are doing awesome work as
myself.
So a piece that I introduced into it
was regional ambassadors, people that
would champion open source movement,
or people that were already championing
open source
movement in their respective regions.
So they're like five different regions in
Africa.
There's like the east, west, north, and
south,
and the central. Now, picking WHO are the
people in these regions
identifying people in those regions
that were already doing open source,
that were leaders in their own
communities,
and selecting them as regional ambassadors
to be able to spread the world of open
source.
And then the core of the program
is around educating people about open
source.
People had the zeal. There's a lot of like
vibrant--
there's a huge vibrant ecosystem in
Africa.
I think I did see one report that
shows that a lot of our population
is in Africa, it's like a field of youth.
So there's a vibrant ecosystem of people
that are ready to learn. So now, how do we
provide them with open source education?
And GitHub had this curriculum that they
had designed.
Talking about what open source is, how to
do open source,
how to use GitHub as a collaborative tool
to contribute to open source.
So how do we find these people and give
them
this opportunity, give them a community to
know each other.
And community of different people
from different parts, different countries
in Africa.
So these regional ambassadors helped
bring these programs together.
We launched the first cohort study in
about September,
September last year. And one really
interesting thing is
we had an overwhelming amount of
applications.
We planned for just like 100 people,
because it was just a pilot's process.
So like, we had a very good interest.
And then over the course of September till
now,
we've done a cohort of over 250 people
from 37 different African countries.
And we gave them the opportunity to learn
about open source
and not just learn being a community where
they can collaborate with people in
different countries
and also bring expert knowledge to them,
because we get to invite people that
are have gone ahead of the open source
movement
and bring them to teach them how to do
open source
and how they can spotlight the activities
that they're doing.
So that's kind of like what the
All-in-Africa
initiatives are about. Why do young people
are interested in open source?
So I often ask myself that question.
Is it more because they see it as another
layer
of professional opportunity, just another
of knowledge and capacity?
Or is it linked to building these social
impact products
and platforms that might help the region?
Yeah, I think I'll take you from both
ways.
Because first, like I mentioned earlier,
the population is more feels like huge.
There are a lot of people that are young
people in Africa.
And even more so like the tech movement in
Africa
is also widespread. And people are trying
to get into tech and earlier on
in one of the panels, someone talked about
the--
I think it was Demetri, that talked about
the low barrier
of entry into tech and even into open
source.
Because yeah, anyone, regardless of your
status,
can contribute. So I think the interest
they're lies in enhancing their career,
like moving from one point to another
point using open source.
And not just when they come into open
source,
they see that, oh, it's not just that I
can just
build software for maybe enterprise
companies to use.
Or I can enhance my society.
I can build social tools that would solve
the challenges
that I face as an individual or that my
society faces.
And that's one of these we tried to
imbibing them
during the all-in-African initiative,
try to get them to build open source
projects around the SDGs,
around the societal problems that they
face in Africa.
So I think I'll approach it from two ways.
So both trying to enhance their skills
and also trying to build solutions
that are particular challenges that they
face.
Question to you both. You said they see it
as an opportunity to enhance
not only their career, but also their
society.
Among policymakers in Nigeria, is there
a recognition of that link?
OK. I don't know, because it's not open.
It's not accessible to me.
I see the government doing a lot of
things.
And I think that's why I love the fact
that I'm here,
because I've learned a lot from seeing
governments
from different parts of the world being
open.
And even the government of Kenya,
I think Kenya is involved in the
organization
of the co-hosting this event.
And it's really, really impressive.
So I don't see it as open as I want it to
be.
And that's something that is an action
item for me
to get across the government to be able to
know
what policies are there. But right now, I
don't really know what's there.
And that's a problem, because if, as the
young generation,
we don't know, then the decisions are
being made.
And they were not part of that decision.
How are things looking in the Caribbean?
I could tell you anecdotally from Trinidad
to Bigger's
perspective. So our Ministry of Digital
Transformation
launched an open source initiative.
This was actually through a consultation
with a Lithuanian company WHO was also
implementing,
I believe, our EID and our digital
transformation
policies and processes. And this was just
super exciting for me.
So I'm like, oh my god, guys, I pulled
together
the open source community, reached out to
a bunch of guys.
And then the response from experienced
people,
because I came back to Trinidad about four
years ago.
And I had a bright ideas, inspiration,
and a lot of hope and belief for my
country.
And they were like, it's the government.
You really think that that's going to do
anything.
So it's just the mentality that when
anything happens.
But I'm like, no, let's do it.
This is our opportunity. They've given us
an actual outlet to push open source.
So I create a naturally improvement
proposal framework
for the entire open source initiative,
because nothing was happening there.
And I reached out to the Ministry of
Digital Transformation.
Let's meet up. Let's have meetups within
the co-working spaces,
any networking events, and with UE,
University of West
Indies, and Crickets. There's just no
collaboration.
I constantly reach out and open up
frameworks
for public-private partnerships to
collaborate.
And within the open source, framework
that is supposed to be harboring great
technology, naturally,
you have great technologists WHO will just
want to give back
and see their country become better.
Oftentimes, that framework just isn't
enabled.
And that's a view from my lens as a
private sector.
But anecdotally, that's what's happening.
You can look into there and get lab repo
and see
there's not much action happening.
So crickets and crabs. Crickets and crabs.
Shifting gears a little bit.
Also, question to both of you.
This open source is a difficult pitch to
young people.
To be an open source contributor and
maintainer,
you first have to learn skills to then
supposedly
give them for free, which might be a tough
sell in the world
where many of the young people are
unemployed.
So is that a fair assessment?
I think you'd have enough of an abundance
mindset
as they've come through our boot camps
and our educational programs within them
to understand collaboration.
And they're armed with all of the tools to
collaborate.
I think it translates really well.
Often, you'd find young gamers WHO are on
the Discord channels
and collaborating online, meeting people
from all over the world. Just naturally, I
honestly haven't seen individuals
uptake open source mentalities as much as
the use
that we've been training through our boot
camps.
So just anecdotally, again, we've
seen that mindset translate so well,
just when given the framework to do it.
So as Ruth does with GitHub in terms of
training
individuals to contribute towards open
source,
a core part of our boot camp is train them
up
on digital literacy. Within that digital
literacy is how
do you contribute towards open source?
How do you push things up to GitHub?
But when you pull down from a repo,
if you have a problem with it, everyone
at the new open source community would
know this.
One of the best things to do is when you
pull down a repo,
try to see where it breaks on your
computer
and then contribute towards your
documentation
to help the next person get involved.
So they just pick that up and they start
to contribute back.
And it's incredible to see how they
naturally just
like the fact that, oh, wow, they've given
back to a repo.
But that repo, when they pull it down
and they start to use it within their
laptop,
empowers them so much. And you see their
eyes light up because, oh, wow,
this thing works. And it's extended my
capabilities so much.
So seeing all of these things happen
within young people,
extending their superpowers, if you could
say it in that way.
Naturally, I think they just have their
arms with all
of the tools for open source.
You just want to get them before they
start working.
Have you any private sector with public
speaker?
So I think I was allowed with a very clear
example.
So one of the things I do around open
source
is I'm the program manager for a community
called
open source community Africa.
And every year we host a festival, an open
source festival.
And then I see some people that have been
to Lagos
for that festival before.
The last one we held was in June last
year.
And we gathered over 3, 000 people in
space.
And then you access that question,
especially among the organizing team.
These are people that might not have full
time jobs.
They are all volunteers. Why do they come
together to put such an event?
And we don't just put the event together
locally.
We put efforts to invite people from
Google, people
like people internationally to come
see the work that is happening in Nigeria,
in Africa.
And you'd ask yourself that question,
like, why would people give ours?
Because we spend close to six months
trying to plan that event, right?
We spend close to six months trying
to put together funds for that event,
like accent from companies and stuff.
Like you'd ask yourself, why would people
devote their time
to something that they are not being paid
for?
And that's where you see that the vibrancy
and the power
of youth in digital transformation, right?
They want to give their time because they
see how much challenges that is presented
by their society.
And they want to be able to change people.
And also, I also want to highlight the
power of influence.
Me just being here, being at the UN
speaking.
It's sending a lot of signals back home.
Because of, OK, I say, because of open
source, I'm here.
People want to do open source just because
of that.
And that's a good thing, right?
So you're trying to-- you're empowering
people.
So the power of influence is also
something
at play that I've seen work a lot in the
Africa ecosystem,
where people go outside. They do really
awesome things.
They come back, and then people see how
their lives have
changed and how they are changing lives
around them
and they are inspired to want to be that,
to want to do that. So, yeah.
Thank you. Mark, you said something
interesting.
You said, I think something along the
lines,
that it's best to grab young people
before they start working for private
sector,
if I heard correctly. So in Ghana, UNICEF
has a startup lab.
And in this lab, we support young social
impact
tech entrepreneurs to develop digital
public goods.
And that's kind of the thesis there of the
country office,
where they see these social impact
entrepreneurs, because why are they
interested in the DPG concept?
It's not because it's maybe the best
concept in the world.
But there are very little other concepts
there to lean on when you're a social
impact technologist.
And like with the DPG, you have a
community, a standard,
some sort of governance structure, et
cetera, et cetera.
So it gives them a really nice foundation.
And very often, when they come into the
program,
you really see that it's a very formative
moment for them.
It's almost either or. They're either
going to stick with it with like, OK,
I'm going to be building social impact.
I'm going to go the open source route, or
no.
Or I'm just going to go totally different
route
and let the government sort all the
problems.
So I do want to hear more about this
formative moment.
Is there something in there?
Open source, converting people to believe
in open source,
or kind of coming to the bright side?
Yeah, I'd like to put this question also
to the fact
that Ruth and myself come from Africa and
in Caribbean.
And there's culturally, again, carbon or
barrel mindset,
but resource wise, there's not a lot of
resources
being dedicated towards digital
transformation.
I mean, now it's the biggest hot topic,
but I mean, this has been around in
Silicon Valley
and big cities around the world to grow
technology.
But only now it's coming to light within
our countries.
And there's still not a lot of resources
being allocated towards empowering
individuals
WHO are technologists.
Actually working in the technology
industry within our countries
is-- I'm not sure about Ruth.
I can't speak for Nigeria, because it
looks thriving.
But in Caribbean, it's not the most
lucrative career.
But when you flip the script and you
enable individuals to contribute towards
open source
technology, that empowers individuals
to pull down one of Facebook's open source
front end frameworks
like React or React Native and build a
mobile application
and then realize all the same technologies
being
built within one of the most, I guess,
influential companies,
technology wise. And I have an opportunity
to go and work for a meta
or a Facebook or a Google.
And that opportunity in itself, when
you start to engage with individuals,
that is one of the most empowering things,
because they start to get foreign income
coming
into the country. And that is a big,
massive thing in terms of empowerment,
because the amount of capital coming into
these countries
is not a lot. But when you expose
individuals to that opportunity
is when everything starts to change,
you change into the abundance mindset.
And that comes with open source, because
open source
is taking over the entire tech world.
And it's almost just a fundamental mindset
that comes with being a successful
technologist in my eyes.
So that's what we teach and purport at Z
Labs,
is if you're building software, you're
doing it in the right ways, and you're
building open source.
And when you expose youth to that, all of
that thinking,
then they experience the mindset of
abundance.
And that's when you break freedom and
mentalities
from being held back in very small island
mindsets,
that crab and a barrel mindset, so that it
really
is fundamental for the growth of young
people.
And in Africa, is it either or for young
people,
I'm either going to work for the big tech,
or I'm going to be an open source
contributor, or not?
OK, so when working for the big tech is
also hard,
because you talk about even when the job
opportunities,
these are remote. Also hiring from Africa
is really, really hard.
So when you see there are a lot of young
people
getting into technology, and I think
that's really why I love initiatives
that teach people at that early formative
time,
because then you get to give them
that culture of building things,
collaborating as well.
So for young people that try to get into
tech,
it's really hard after maybe going
through one year of learning how to code,
or even two years,
to get that first job opportunity.
And open source kind of presents that
ground for them
to get real life experience, even drawing
for my own personal career.
I literally started contributing to open
source very early on,
and even with the Chaos Project, like my
whole career
is built on the opportunities that I have
the things
that I have done through the Chaos
Project, right?
So open source, you see internships
like the Google Summer of Code, Google
Season of Docs,
Outreach, it's growing numbers in Africa,
because that first opportunity is so hard
to get.
It's so, so hard to get. And then because
they're able to contribute to open source,
it gives them that opportunity to be able
to make
that first contribution, and then moving
to maybe trying
to get into Outreachy, and that
internship,
after that internship process, they're
able to get full-time jobs.
There are a lot of success stories
I know around people that have gone
through internships,
like the Google Summer of Code, and even
Outreachy.
And like from that point, they just fly.
So, yes, so I also see it.
Would you then say that there is more open
source capacity
support coming from private sector than
the government?
Yes, there is. How is it in the Caribbean?
Yeah, definitely. There's a lot more
activity with the youth
in terms of open source development.
If you do look at a few contributions to
the MDT in our country,
it's a lot of young people WHO are
enabled with the technological saviness.
Unexpected.
Last question before we have 20 minutes
for Q&As.
What do you think is more true?
Open source needs young people, or young
people need
to know open source? I think open source
needs more young people,
because there are a lot of old people
here.
So, yes, open source needs young people.
Yeah, so-- Yeah, I can't be that.
I'm with Ruth on that one, definitely.
Well, that's a perfect ending to the
discussion.
Thank you so much. Give it up for Ruth and
Mark, please.
And we have 20 minutes left.
If there are any questions to Mark or
Ruth,
please raise your hand. I don't know how
it works.
Yeah, raise your hand. You raise your
hand.
That works. And now I think you can switch
on the thing.
Yeah.
OK. Hi. Hi, I'm Malvika Sharan.
I'm a senior researcher at the Alintering
Institute.
And I also have a nonprofit on training
and mentoring
in open science and open source.
Really, really fantastic to hear from Bill
to Fu,
and makes things into perspective,
because youth are 100% of our future.
So the decisions that we are making,
the kind of training and upskilling we're
doing,
we need to make sure that we work with the
youth.
So thank you for the advocacy that you all
are representing here.
So my question is a bit more practical in
terms of,
I think, Ruth, you talked about GSOC and
GSOC
or similar kind of programs, where younger
people
are able to work with established open
source communities
and gain experience and then find their
way up.
And in our mentoring and training program,
we do have similar kind of situations
where we see young people join us.
But they are very little.
They are-- no, they're not little.
Isn't that very less a number?
We always have about 10% or 20% of our
entire cohort
of mentees WHO are younger.
Rest of them are very established
researchers
or early career researchers.
So how do you think we align with other
training
and mentoring programs across our network
and ecosystem WHO are working to build
representation
from minority groups and queer people and
people of color
from all across the globe?
I feel like we all won the same.
We're just not doing it in a way that it
feels supportive
to the younger communities.
Or maybe we are just not talking in the
same way
where they do feel part of the
conversation.
Maybe the kind of programs we're building
are pretty boring and we're not really
talking in a way that
helps younger people gain more voices in
these places
and help us shape the work that we're
doing.
Yeah, sure, that's a really good question.
So one thing is looking at the application
process,
kind of doing an audit on how does the
application process
look like? Because from, I think, also, he
said,
the young people getting into trying
to get these opportunities out really
early phases at their career.
So say, for example, you have projects
that are really, really technical.
As a young person or trying to break into
it,
I really cannot apply to that.
And that's why, mostly, maybe, you would
find people
that are like higher, start to try to get
into this project.
So I think looking at the application
process,
how seamless is it, and also, what are the
projects
being presented to these young people?
And then also, educating them more
on how to apply to these things.
Even visibility is also another thing
that, in my experience,
you'd find out that in a lot of people,
even to how widespread outreach it is,
there are sometimes I still go to some
conferences
in some remote areas in Africa.
And I talk about outreach here, and it's
some new thing.
So that's also another thing, visibility
into,
what are the different areas you want to
address,
or you want to see more participation?
Then you have to go to them and bring them
into the room.
Look for people that are in those regions
that you want to see more representation
from.
And then speak to those people.
Try to lower the barrier of entry, as
well,
to be able to, you know, accept in more
people.
And so, I'll put you from that angle.
I hope that helps.
The risk of sounding like a capitalist.
But I often think people go with the
money,
is, I think, a great way of getting people
involved
with their projects. For me, it's always
just been hackathons,
with a prize at the end. And that's kind
of how I got into the majority
of any of the things that I went into
software wise,
is like, oh, there's a competition,
or there's some sort of prize that I could
win at the end,
and I can maybe have this project
keep going afterwards, because there's
like a continuity aspect of it.
So yeah, I just think the way in which you
present it,
you probably know this, as well.
But those are the things that we've gotten
a lot of youth
through our programs from the best way,
is just having some sort of curated
narrative.
That's for young people. If you want some
sort, like anything gender related,
you put all of that within the context of
the hackathon,
and then incentivize them to come through
a program.
And if they like it, and they like
contributing towards it,
then you'll find that I think you have a
lot more people involved.
I hope maybe just only at perhaps looking
at Lucy from DPGA. Just at least talking
with friends WHO
have established infrastructure to build
those alliances
across different groups that might help.
And maybe there is some role for DPGA
in arounding the young people's capacity.
Any other question? There is a hand here.
Does it work? Yes. Thank you for the
presentation.
I'm a scientist. I'm a professor.
And we do work a lot with students, of
course,
as a scientist or professors.
And my experience is that we do a lot of
events
like hackathons, bootcams.
We attract a lot of young people.
They come. They code. They have a lot of
good ideas.
Then they get an award for what they did.
And then after the event, the support is
over.
There is no support anymore.
And I saw so many good projects dying
because there is no sustainable support
after such great events. So what is your
experience about that?
Have you experienced that too?
How could we change that?
So I think I'll use an analogy from one of
the projects
that I contributed, the Chaos Project.
So we do have an active community of
people.
And they're also drive-by contributors,
which
is, I think, that's also fine, because
people
are different points in their career,
right?
And then they could start with the project
and eventually not want to continue
contributing.
So I think trying to figure out what are
the barriers
or what are the points where they drop
off, right?
And then metrics really help with
measuring
these kind of things. And I'll just plug
in Chaos Project here.
So yeah, so trying to find-- what are
those points
that they drop off from, and why do they
drop off, right?
Doing the community service can help as
well.
Knowing, OK, these are the different
points
that the community is-- or the contributors
or the people that you're training
and having issues, and then how do we
address them
at this point? So one is pretty normal as
well for people
to drop off a fight program, because I
also
experienced that with the program I run,
right?
Maybe you have like 100 people in your
program,
and not everybody gets to the finish line,
or not everybody kind of gets to do
something big, right?
It's also fine. You're still like
empowering people,
but also just doing your own due diligence
to figure out what is the issue, and how
can I fix it?
How can I actively fix this issue that
they are encountering?
I would maybe just also-- this is just a
personal opinion,
but I would put much more burden and
honest on the people
that are organizing the hackathons,
just design them better. So I suppose, if
there is a hackathon that's
kind of organized and avoid, and somebody
is getting $5, 000, and that's about it,
that probably doesn't make much sense.
But I can imagine a scenario where a
UNICEF country office
organizes a hackathon that's designed
really well.
It's very specific. Tailored to one of the
programmatic areas
may be rather than all of them.
And then you have much more likelihood
that this will be picked up by the
education division,
or child protection division, of the given
country office.
And maybe it will have a longer runway,
and actually an opportunity to scale to
some extent.
I really love this question.
It's something I'm super passionate about,
and essentially, the way we've built our
ecosystem
components is specifically to solve that
problem.
Essentially, what we do is we have
networking nights.
The networking nights are exposure to
what's going on.
And then, within those networking nights,
we show them, OK, here's a hackathon going
on,
or here's a software development bootcamp.
After the software development bootcamp,
that some people get exposed to from
networking night,
that after that, when the units are
capable,
they will go into the hackathon.
So we've enabled them with the technology
prowess.
Then after that, they get excited with the
hackathon.
They go through a competition.
Oh, they feel it's hard because they can
build something.
And then we have a co-working space.
And this co-working space acts right now
as our pseudo accelerator, in a way.
But we give them seats within the
co-working space
to keep working on the idea.
And that, in itself, coupled with the
funding,
helps future-proof their ideas.
But also, the major component of that
entire thing
is an ecosystem of supporting people
of mindsets of individuals WHO are in the
co-working space,
constantly telling people, come into this
ecosystem.
You can do it, yes you can.
What's your problems? How do you solve it?
So within an innovation ecosystem,
I think that's the missing component
is the supporting framework for
individuals WHO
are coming through. They all engage, but
then there's
there needs to be that supporting
component after.
And that's really hard to do.
I know that for a fact. Like building a
co-working space is a hard thing to do.
You could potentially partner up with
university accelerators
and venture capitalists and angel funds.
But yeah, that's a lot of hard work to do.
But I think it's such a massive component
of having a sustainable innovative
ecosystem after hackathons.
[INAUDIBLE] Hello. Yes. So thank you for
this question, actually.
I have a comment on this question that you
had.
And panelists can actually comment if the
experience has been.
So I'm Sujata Tibriwala. I work for
ByteDance.
And we have 50 plus open source projects.
And before that, I worked for Intel.
And we had a lot of open source projects
in the community as well.
So my experience in ongoing support
or projects not dying down after the
hackathons
has been in the open source projects,
which
are supported by the community.
So in the previous panel, one of the
panelists
was mentioning about a maintainer burnout
that it's not
that the maintainers don't want to answer
questions.
It's just that they're burned out.
So the best projects, in my view,
are where the community supports each
other.
That the community answers questions.
They are there to solve each other's
issues
and not just dependent on the maintainers.
That's, I guess, my comment.
And turning back the table on you on what
is your experience on that?
I think I share the same as well, like,
you know,
building the community in a way where
everybody can
participate, like everybody can give their
opinions
and even having new comment, like with
Slack
or maybe your chat rooms, having like
spaces
where people can freely ask questions.
And yet the community is sustaining the
community.
So in the case where the maintainer is
unavailable,
you know, anybody can respond to that
question.
And even running ambassador programs kind
of like help
because like if the maintainer is not
there,
there are people that are kind of
are being in the community for some time,
they can, you know, answer questions or
respond issues
because I think one of the major reasons
why people
just drop out, that's no response.
It's really, really frustrating.
And even when people try to make a
contribution,
there's no, there's like a back and forth
on how to submit this patch request or
something
so having people try and ambassador
programs
could also help with, you know,
building up contributors to that
maintainer ship status.
- Yeah, just last thing is you touched on
a really good point,
which is the ability for online
communities
to extend the capacity.
'Cause I talked about a lot of physical
infrastructure there,
but it's really important that these
online communities
are really what are sustaining a lot of
these developments
that happen within these spaces
that reach out to people in
underprivileged backgrounds
or just, you know, have capacity issues.
So it's a really awesome point.
- I think it should show, yeah.
- I know, yeah, it's working.
So pretty much also coming to this point
because we discussed here a lot,
pretty much like free money is coming
for these open source projects.
So I've been in a lot of the different
corona projects
like this, coding for good and coding for
corona,
everything around how can we actually
build
an open source environment
to actually solve some problem in this
case.
The problem was that most of these
businesses
were really reliant on like, give me
money.
So dear government, give me money.
I mean, we are here, it's some of the,
I mean, the UN is one of the bunny givers,
right?
So the problem in principle is
that a lot of these open source
communities,
they're building pretty much a technology
for a business case, but they're not
allowed to do the business case
or the other way around. They actually
make this as an open source project.
They come out and they actually create a
business model
and then just pretty much make it a closed
source
because they find funding.
So that is actually the problem that it
was never attacked
because we have a lot of ideological
discussions here
about let's have everything open
and everybody can participate
and it's all fun to actually have
everything there,
but we never have the really, the elephant
in the room
that somebody needs to pay actually at
some point
for this project to actually have a go to
market strategy.
It's nice to get the developers actually
involved
into this community, but sometimes you
also need
heavily marketing, you need a lot of other
materials.
So that's also a non-sustainable business
model
that you're always kind of like backed for
money
and you're just asking that somebody else
gives you money and I've seen so many open
source projects
which literally go bust because at some
point
the money was just running out.
And I guess that is also a very, very
misleading conception
that we have this ideology on money just
needs
to come from public sources.
I just do this source code.
I just open it and it's good for
everybody,
but we need to have also this
entrepreneurial,
that's what you said before like this
capitalistic view.
It's not just capitalistic, but it needs
to refinance itself.
I mean, everybody has costs and these
costs
need to be refinanced. I don't have
unlimited money for food and housing.
So this needs to be refinanced and I guess
this is one
of the problems that is never addressed
that actually open sourcing the technology
is not the same as open sourcing the
business model
and the business model around.
It needs to be also sometimes closed
source
because otherwise you cannot defend it
and without the defendable business model
you cannot survive.
So there is like this mutually exclusive
thing
between like, yes, let's do something
open,
but I need to also have a business in a
way
that I can survive on my own.
And the same is with a lot of the projects
because corona for good literally,
I was in a church in the Jewry there.
We had 140 different projects in there
and I could say like none of them would
survive
any single day without actually public
money.
And that is actually that is frightening
because that literally makes them pretty
much
as a beggar to governments, to UN,
to whatever institutions you have there.
I mean, it's nice to have an input for UN
to actually get all these startups.
Kind of like, yeah, please help me
and here is a good idea.
And pretty much taking this open source
approach then
and pretty much sourcing their ideas
for their own institutions,
but it doesn't make actually them have
fun.
And that's what we are discussing
because people give it up because there is
no fun in it
because I contribute and pretty much I
just get the work
and the others get the fun with it.
So how do you address that?
Sorry for the long one.
- I do have a reaction, but I do wanna
give Ruth
a mark opportunity to answer.
- Yeah, I mean, that is fundamentally
everyone
in this audience would have like really
awesome answers
for that question and I feel very
unqualified,
but my main thing is that I just choose a
sustainable model
and it's one of the hardest things to do
for an open source project as you're
right.
You know, we've seen it with open source
projects
like Odu, Hasura, like the Lilen X
Foundation,
they have all of these unique ways
in which they solve their problems.
And yeah, the way that we approach it
is that we pick a business problem
and we solve that problem with the open
source solution
and that problem being solved brings in
capital
to keep everything going.
So for example, our educational framework,
the bootcamp pays for our framework,
JavaScript on everything to be built.
The collectible project has an underlying
business model
behind it that allows us to keep pushing
that technology
open source. We actually pull that from
another repo
and then we contribute back to that open
source project
so the indirect benefits of our success as
well.
So with every open source project that we
do build,
we pick up business problems to solve
and solve it with that open source
solution.
So that's the only way that that's how we
go
about doing things, I'm not saying that's
the best way,
but just in terms of what we do, that's
how we do it.
- Yeah, I think like Mark said,
I'm also unqualified to answer that
question
because even like in Africa,
we still have very little commercial
like open source business models coming
up.
People are still trying to contribute.
And even like just, I do agree with you as
well.
And even with funding, applying to funding
is also like something that is also very
difficult.
Getting funding applications,
knowing the process of applying to this
funding initiative
is also like very difficult to do so.
- So like my reaction, first of all,
the one set that was gonna be easy, that's
the first one.
And then I would probably push back a
little bit
on the assumption that young people
are just sort of waiting for government
to give them money for this work.
From the few years that I've spent,
specifically in Ghana,
I can tell you that one stakeholder,
that young people want it to be as far
away as possible,
as far away, there's don't touch us with a
stick,
is the government.
They say if government touches our
product, it's dead.
That's basically the sentiment over there.
So this is what we're trying to address
through the UNICEF Venture Fund,
and I don't want to plug the Venture Fund
all the time here.
But this is the reason why we spend just
as much time
on building the knowledge about business
licenses
as anything else, because at the end,
these things have to just pay for
themselves.
- Freaking, oh, no. But the thing is, for
example,
you said in Africa, there is not much
support
for the open source community.
I guess that's also a reason,
because when you look, because I'm sitting
in the European
Commission, I was advising the social
proximity there.
So there is a lot in NPO and NGO work, et
cetera.
And this is pretty much per definition,
very much social work is almost open
source in a way.
So what they do in a way is they want to
give back.
But they also said, pretty much for all of
the projects
they have, they always need to have this
public funding
from somewhere. And I guess you see that
there is a very large community
actually in Europe where there is this
public funding.
And in Africa, it's harder because you
literally need,
you kind of start with a good idea
and just build an open source project.
It's literally, you need to have it in a
way already
accessible, and that is, of course,
this catalyst of public funding what helps
open source.
That's why Africa is super, super
efficient
when it comes to building startups,
because there is the immediate need to
have this funding
from a startup perspective.
But in Europe, we have pretty much this
nice way
of saying, like, hey, there is official
funding for you
come here, do that. That's why-- I mean, I
have this experience now
from a European perspective, especially
after the corona,
as I said, there are hundreds of startups,
and they all got money pretty much just to
do a hackathon,
et cetera. That is something that comes
from governmental work.
That gives you, of course, a leeway.
That gives you a runway to actually say,
like, hey,
we can just test it out, and we have this
hackathon being paid.
And we have this cool opportunity to do
that.
But if that is missing, and that is, for
example,
what also was said, in Africa, it is
harder
because many things are not working like
that.
So it is more the entrepreneurial and VC
way,
instead of, like, open source and have a
good idea
and let's find a community.
So I'm not saying they're just waiting for
the money,
but when they do that, they expect the
money,
because otherwise they cannot start,
because they're pretty much lost.
Yeah, that's true. And that links neatly
to what Ruth
said about the private sector's support
for this work, as well.
And so also, like, the role of the global
capital
and the whole thing of, I don't know,
2% of it going to the global south.
I think that's another part of this
conversation.
But I think we're at that time.
Nick is looking at me. Thank you, again,
for questions,
and let's keep chatting after this.
Thank you. [APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello. There we go. So great to hear about
everything our panelists are doing
and to think about what the next
generation of open source
developers, advocates, and community
leaders
might look like. Before we move on to the
next session,
open source and network cities, we
do have another Slido opportunity.
So energy, again, might be lagging from
lunch.
But we wanted to ask you what aspect of
today's program
for the remainder of the day.
Are you most looking forward to?
So feel free to scan that QR code and add
some ideas.
So we have diversity in open source,
collaboration, air
conditioning. [LAUGHTER]
We were assured that it was chilly, but
not too chilly at the UN.
Diversity in open source, great.
Coffee, as always. Two coffees.
Global maturity-- yes. Conversation.
And what looks like a goat.
And I believe we also have some time for
feedback.
Is that right? Yes. So thank you all for
your ideas.
We're also going to take some time
to provide some feedback on the last
session.
Maybe if we have time, we'll provide
feedback
on the other sessions as well.
So please scan that QR code, and you
can provide feedback on the youth in open
source panel.
And while you're all doing that, I'm
going to set up our next panel.
So this is our last, what we're calling
thematic track of the conference.
So these are kind of our main one and a
half hour panels.
So this one is focused on open source
network cities.
And the track is going to focus, in some
detail,
on concrete applications of open source
and cities.
In particular, the role of OSPO's--
open source program offices, which
we've been talking a lot about, and the
ways
in which local governments are driving
collaboration
in open source ecosystems.
We would also like to invite you all
to share your lessons learned and
experiences, as always.
Leading through all of this will be our
moderator, Jacob Green.
Jacob is the founder of OSPO Plus Plus,
and truly one of the most tireless
advocates
for OSPO's in the world. He's often up at
3 AM, sending us emails about OSPO's.
And he's one of the main reasons this
conference
was started last year. Before Jacob comes
out, I wanted to turn it over
to our keynote speaker. So I hope you'll
join me in welcoming Lindsay J. Thompson,
a professor of practice at Johns Hopkins
University.
Lindsay is the founder and director of
City Labs USA,
and Urban Social Impact Business
Innovation Collaborative,
and a steadfast advocate for OSPO's in the
United States
and beyond. Lindsay, welcome to the stage.
[APPLAUSE]
[INAUDIBLE]
I can't see it. So I want you to kind of
quiet yourselves for a minute,
put all your notebooks, pencils, close
your laptops,
breathe.
We've been through a lot in this last
couple of days.
So I want you to just think about, why are
we here,
and what are we doing? There's been just
so much packed into these days.
But let's think about tech, open source,
all these kinds of things that we've
been kind of rolling around in our minds.
These are instrumental, not teleological
goods.
What is the teleological good?
What is the end of what we're trying to do
here,
which is very good, but it's not an end in
itself.
So this is what we're going to talk about
a little bit
today. Who's advancing the slides?
Oh, next one, OK. Thank you so much.
So let's think about our city as a
laboratory.
I'm not going to talk much.
I want you to just think about this.
This is what we're doing.
We're actually in an experiment.
We have never been in this place before.
So I want you to dwell on this.
Our species, depending on how you count
and whom you count,
is hundreds of thousands of years old.
And we're talking about inventions,
problems,
opportunities that are, at most, 200 years
old, maybe
three or 400. But some of them are only
five days old.
So this long, long history we have as a
species
and the way our neurology and the way our
adaptive capabilities
have evolved slowly over time are not
really ready for where
we are right now. So all the technology in
the world
isn't going to be fast enough for us to
speed up.
So think about how cities evolved.
Think of what is the first city you ever
heard of?
And when did it start? How old is it?
Where do you live now? And how old is that
city?
And what was it like? Look at where we are
right now on this big rock.
This is actually not a very old city.
There were people and human settlements
here.
But Manahata didn't see anything like the
kinds of things
we're talking about till very, very
recently.
So this is kind of the pickle we're in,
is we are so smart and we can think so
fast.
But you know what? We have bodies.
We have feelings. We have limited
capacities to cope with some of the things
that we're dealing with.
And it's really good to be in our heads
because we don't have to
think about how we feel.
And we don't have to think so much of all
it's hard to ignore
how your body feels.
Especially like a tooth cake or back ache
sitting in these chairs
for so long. So we're dealing with people,
people first,
WHO are having a hard time adapting just
on ordinary days.
And then you bring a storm or you know
this hurricane that we've had.
So the whole teleological end is how are
people going to live on
this planet and how are we going to build
cities, human settlements
that really make it possible for people to
live well.
Now this is a problem.
So we're all familiar with this.
Next one. So we're talking about what's
next.
We know all these things I've just talked
about.
We've just gone through. We kind of all
know this.
So we're trying to fix it.
So I just want to do a little framing of
you know the knowledge
framework. Of course we're all familiar
with this.
We're probably all familiar with human
capabilities that development
approach.
We're probably familiar with Robert Wood
Johnson is the big
promoter of you know the largest health
foundation I think in the
world that's privately funded.
We're probably familiar with planetary
health sciences.
Sustainable development goals.
I mean when you put all this together
there's just so much knowledge
and so much expertise and so much practice
out there.
So what we've been doing in our lab is
people can't think of all
this at once. So we've just kind of
collapsed all this down into five buckets.
A livable planet. Healthy people.
Resilient communities. Empowered citizens.
And chaired prosperity.
And actually all those if we just focus on
those five buckets and
how we can make every one of those buckets
work better for people
and work better with each other because
part of the problem that
we have is separate buckets that don't
talk to each other.
So this is what we're talking about today
and yesterday.
Let's get those buckets all those systems
in those buckets talking
to each other in the bucket beyond the
bucket and especially working
in a way that they're seamless for people.
So the big thing we have to rethink is the
economics of a livable
future because some of you are lucky and
you don't live
in a land of pernicious capitalism.
Now I'm an American. I happen to live in
the land of pernicious capitalism.
And I teach at a business school which in
some ways is even more
pernicious. So we need to really think
about if we're going to have an economy
for livability in an urban world,
90% of the people in the world live within
10 kilometers
of a water source for instance here that
is polluted,
flooding, I mean all sorts of threats.
And we're concentrated along waterways.
Most of us, fresh and salt water
waterways.
So here we are. We've got these big
problems that we've kind of created.
By being so focused on we've got to make
money.
We've got to get material things and I'm
not against that.
But oh we have to go back one.
So this is the mantra of capitalism, the
wealth of nations.
So it's not that it's wrong.
It's just not the whole truth and it's not
the human truth.
So I want you to think about a livable
economy in this way.
We don't even really measure the wealth of
cities like we do GDP.
And of course there are all sorts of
faults with GDP measurement.
But we're not really thinking about cities
functionally the way we should be.
So really it's cities that make the world
go.
Especially now that we're more and more
urban.
So we talk about these big global
challenges that all these buckets are about.
They're really city challenges.
They're neighborhood challenges.
[ Pause ] It's a grim picture but this is
what we're trying to fix.
People, so it's not just people in big
cities.
Cities can be monolithic andamorphous in
the aggregate as
the whole world can be or nation states.
And so I want you to think about this.
You are a human animal and a creature of
place.
The place you're in really matters.
Now we're lucky in this heat wave.
We have a relatively cool room.
We have comfortable chairs.
We're distant so we're not breathing down
each other's necks.
And it's pretty nice in here.
But the physical location where you are,
and there's a lot of science about this,
is people don't really live in the big
aggregate.
You cannot live in cyberspace.
Your body is right here.
And for those people WHO live in
neighborhoods that have all sorts of problems
that we've been talking about that we're
trying to fix, it is devastating.
And we cannot let this go on.
So we have to not think just ascities
butwe have to think about
what's the cell structure of cities.
The places where people eat, shop, work,
they're not that far from each other.
Of course, Americans have gotten so we
commute hundreds of miles.
So I want you to think for a minute, how
livable is your city?
Not necessarily just where you live, but
how familiar are you?
How much time have you spent in
neighborhoods that are not your own?
In neighborhoods where people like you
don't go?
Some of you,I'm sure spend a lot of time
there,but some of us
we're kind of wrapped in our safe places.
And we really need to not just get out
withour heads andthink about
the technical problems
and the operational problems,but we need
to take our bodies and
our hearts in some of the places
wherepeople don't want to go.
There are two choices. You can be a lab
rat, you can be a lab leader.
Let's be leaders.
That's it.
Can we get the rest of the panelists up on
the stage, please?
So wherever.
Thank you,Lindsay,for the remarks
thatremind us thatwe're human and
what the SDGs boil down to.
This is a panel about cities and open
source and the idea of cooperation.
We talk a lot aboutcooperation and
the ideas of cooperation at the
technological level in terms of open source.
In terms of the infrastructure of the code
thatwe build together andwe cooperate on
that infrastructure of the code.
We talk a lot andwe've seen some already
about
the idea of the cooperation between the
human beings,the human infrastructure.
We're also now going to talk a little bit
aboutthe open source program offices as
the organizational infrastructure forthat
cooperation.
We're going to specifically apply thatto
the idea of cities and
how we might achieve impact
throughcooperation.
Thank you very much, panelists, for
showing up today.
We're going to start being a very
amorphous group here today.
I'd like for yourselves to introduce
yourselves to start off with.
And then we'll start with some questions.
Giza will start at the end.
I have to start. Yes. Okay.
Hi, good evening. My name is Geza Zimmer.
I'm a scientist. I'm an urban researcher.
I'm a professor in the field of digital
cities.
We don't call it smart cities.
We call it digital cities because it's
probably a bit more citizen driven.
And I'm heading Unitag, which is the UN
Innovation Technology Accelerator of Cities.
It's a collaboration between UNHABITAD and
OICT here in New York.
And we are coding,developing tools in the
field of smart cities,urban data platforms
citizen engagement software algorithms.
It's a lot about urban twinning and it's
all open source.
I mean,as a scientist,I have never done
anything else than being open source
which is very nice.
And I'm super excited thatthere is a big
community here fromother fields that
also fight foropen source.
But I also think thatwe are still a bit in
the bubble here because
when you go outside,the outside is not
soeasy withopen source.
We have to defend open source very often
and we have to fight for it.
And maybe we can also get a bit out of the
bubble here.
Awesome. Good afternoon, I'm Mark.
I'm Mark Anthony Thomas.
I lead the Regional Economic andCivic
Organization forBaltimore
which is called the Greater Baltimore
Committee.
I was also my career working across the
country in New York,in Los Angeles
in Pittsburgh,in Atlanta,working on
economic development issues.
And so I'm happy to be here and look
forward to the conversation.
Hello, everybody. My name is Richard
Givers.
I'm the Executive Director and Founder of
Open Cities Lab.
Open Cities Lab is an organization working
in the continent of Africa.
Now,in andacross five countries,working
withcity governments and
civil society on bringing more
inclusion,more participation.
And I think more of those livable cities
thatLindsay was talking about,mainly
throughdata anddigital.
My background,I call myself a recovering
economist,turned data scientist
turned someone working forthe future of
cities.
It's really a pleasure to be here.
Hello, everybody. My name is Dua Abarud.
I love to call myself a collaborative
success advocate.
I have a BHD in Information System and
Technology.
I work asa researcher,data scientist,for a
long time
and I lead multiple projects within the
Saudi government.
Currently,I work withthe Ministry of
Municipal Ruler Affairs and
Housing to help them develop their digital
transformation objectives and
also enable innovation.
Happy to be with you here.
Hello, everybody.
I'm Doug Schrütter.
I'm the Head of the State Transillery of
Chezvi Hoshan.
That's a state in the north of Germany.
I have the responsibility forthe
digitization in our state since 2022
and I never wrote a quote.
Sorry forthat in this audience,but I'm
fascinated aboutthe power of open source and
open innovation systems
by using open source andopen standards,and
I deeply believe that
we can do the public administration to an
innovation driver
if we're using open source anddo open
innovation
and it's our task to build open innovation
systems
and to implement open source software in
our state level IT systems.
That is our way.
We're going in our state in Chezvi
Hoshan,and so
we are pioneer in this way in Germany.
It's great to be here. Thank you, Omar, and
team for hosting such a wonderful event.
And it's glad to meet you becauseI have
never quoted myself
so it's great to be here.
I'm an entrepreneur,and I'm a CEO of an
organization called EAGA Foundation,and for
the last 21 years
we've been working on the question
thatLindsay asked
"How do you make cities more livable?
"
I come from India. I lived in Bangalore
for the last 20 years.
It's been growing at 20% plus every year.
A lot of migrants come in for
opportunities.
How do you make cities friendly for
people?
How do you make sure they get access to
services they need?
How do you make sure they trustable data
to make right decisions?
And there are capacity issues on all
sides.
So open source is basically part of our
business model
because I come from global majority,
global south, where resources are limited
and markets are not that mature. For us,
the journey has been really
how do you create infrastructure whichis
open on which
multiple people can build solutions
which work in their context because
context vary a lot.
India has cities like Mumbai,which is 20
million people,and the cities we have 20
000 people.
So how do you create an infra and ecosystem
that can solve at scale and speed?
And both are important in global maturity
because
we don't have enough time to make sure
people
get clean drinking water, sanitation, and
have healthy life.
So we'll have to talk later a lot about it,
but glad to be here and thanks once again.
I'm Lindsay Thompson, and I'm the same
person I was when I was introduced.
Except I would say one thing.
I am not a technical person, although I've
had to adapt.
My field of study is ethics and the anthropology
of ancient and traditional societies,
and specifically over the course of
many,many years andeons,how do cultures and
societies
adapt to something that's new, that
something is disruptive?
Not just the technological things, but
cultural change, and so this is what I study,
and I see this going on all the time, so
it's a really exciting time to be alive.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much
for joining us.
We have a few questions
and the way we're going to do this is feel
free to answer any
of you can answer any of the questions you
won't want to.
We're not going to go down the road, and
we're going to start with a few questions.
We pre-arranged
and then we're going to start asking a
little bit of questions amongst
yourselves to start a bit of a dialogue.
Finally, we're going to open it up to the
floor to get questions from the attendees.
To start with, let's talk about, we've
spoken a lot about open source today,
over the last two days.
Let's talk aboutOSPO,the open source
program office
which is an organizational construct
to solve mission challenges.
Leveraging open source, of course, leveraging
open data, open standards, et cetera,
but as we've seen, the open source program
office is a green field in terms of a brand
new organizational construct at the end of
the day to help us solve challenges
within
our own silo, but also collectively
between our silos.
With any of you like to talk about the idea
of connected cities and the idea of how an
OSPO may help in your work to have impact.
For us, we'll start at the end.
Yeah, OSPO is great.
I just started to understand what OSPO's
could be
because I'm here now at the conference.
I read Omar's papers, but now I understand
a bit better what it could be.
I would like to connect to what Lindsay
said.
The city as a lab is a very nice idea, and
I think it's, if OSPO's took place in many,
many cities in the world, and if OSPO's
created power also to connect cities,
then it should be integrated in the city
quite well.
So the city as a lab means that you include
people that you connect people in the city
first of all so that they can collaborate.
And what I see very often with also UN
entities, I have to be honest,
is that they are not very, very connected
to the city.
They come a bit like an Oofo, and they
stay there.
They are very international.
So city as a lab means collaboration, and
I think it's quite new for cities that they
want to collaborate.
We have had a lot of discourse in academia
also that cities also want to compete.
You have the smartest city, you have the
most creative city,
the greenest city, the most livable city.
So there's a lot of competition in between
cities
but cities start to work together now.
And this is because data is available and
data is open source.
We can share tools, we can share code.
But this is quite new. So cities are not
so different from individuals.
They always want to be the best.
And I don't know if Baltimore and New York
and Boston collaborate.
I think not, but they should.
And Ospus could help. Yeah, I'll go next.
I think where there's a tremendous
opportunity.
And I'll speak to different examples of
collaborations I've been either an architect
of or part of.
In New York, they collaborate pretty
aggressively with other international cities
around economic development work.
So we created an international cyber
challenge with London and Paris
and Tokyo and Helsinki to support small
business.
In Los Angeles,I worked on an effort to
identify all the real estate that
was in the portfolio of the city.
Cities do a terrible job of managing
abandoned properties andsites
at least within the United States.
And sothere's a lot of organizations,especially
across post-industrial America
that are really focused on that.
And I think the office can help us.
How do you scale that up to another level?
And the issues thatwe're tackling are
massive,the tremendous market opportunities
if you create the right open source
environment.
And that's really wherethe office can
facilitate thatproblem solving
but create market solutions in the
process.
I think terminology is really important
becauseI think,you know
we've got city science labs,we've got
OSPO's
we've got a lot of these different things.
And I agree withGeyser in a way thatthese
can be joined together as
by understanding what the purpose of the
city is.
Where will people be housed?
How will we reduce negative impacts from
environmental shocks and disasters?
How are we going to handle growth?
Really,like,when it comes to many of the
topics we've talked aboutin this conference
the reality,the lived reality formost
people in the world will be experienced
throughtheir city.
And their town and whatever it is.
And so when it comes to this concept of
NOSPA, I think it's really powerful.
If it is able to connect intoa long trajectory
of a lot of work that's happening and
collaborate within that.
And I think one of the challenges or risks
is thatit sets up a parallel stream,which
and to Geyser's point aswell,you
know,working within cities in the continent.
There's a lot of helicoptering in or a lot
of I NGOs andI other things fighting for
competitions themselves.
But if we can connect it intowhat each
city is trying to do andunderstand that
there is critical core
infrastructure,digital infrastructure
that is shared,the examples thathave just
been shared by Mark and
that I'm sure we all go throughin these
cities.
If we can start to understand how those
can connect,not only on a code level
but on an application andprocess
andgovernance level
then I think, I mean, there's a huge
amount of potential there.
And whenI think about
even how we use work around governance in
Durban on the east coast of South Africa
that was originally written as open source
code for Honolulu.
You know,and we take the significant open
data platform,CCAN,and deploy that
in all of the cities we work in.
And,you know,at some point
every city has the same origin of the open
knowledge foundation original CCAN data
platform that
you know,it can share
and other sorts of things like this.
Then I think we start to get to see what
an iceberg can do in organizing around
that.
Okay,if I'm going to take this idea around
what is happening currently in Saudi
I will say thata smooth terminology is not
familiar
to me, but I'm familiar to different
practices that represent OSPO.
In Saudi Arabia,we started talking aboutopen
source really early,but it was ideology
a concept,an urge foraction
and that led to the development of NIC,
which is the National Information Center,
where all the information anddata
thatassociated with
government are supposed to be shared all
over the platforms of governmental entities
and thatled to the development of entities
called Sadaya,which is the Saudi data and
AI authority.
That entity
their main objective is to regulate open
source information to create a platform for
all the governmental entities to open to
each other
and develop software fromthe governmental
layer that
serve the citizens at all level of the
city services andneeds.
Now,I think,like we integrated 250
different data sets that
represent different governmental entities,those
data sets are talking to each other
so we became open source government asof
now
and the next phase,we're trying to
navigate how we regulate and
authorize an open source platform forthe
public to thrive the economy
to start working with startup and so on.
So, I think OSPO is there, but with
different terminologies.
In my point of view,the OSPO or initiatives
like this are extremely relevant and
place a crucial role forcollaboration
because
the initiatives bring the relevant
stakeholder together
and building environment
forcollaboration,and thatis a field which
brings external effects fromthe common
work in different fields
and sothe common work is extremely
relevant forcreate innovation and
environment of innovation.
I think forme,the two things thatstand out
at OSPO andOSPO like entities can do
one is convening governments,if you talk
aboutpublic services,where we work
and identifying the pressing problems
everybody's interested in solving,governments
NGOs,nonprofits,civil society
organizations
and create energies that open source can
be used as a way of solving it.
I think that would, that will go into kind
of a mission mode kind of a thing.
Second thing is,from a point of view of
reusability,how can you reuse software which
is built fora town of 20 million people to
a town of 20,000 people
and you can also have non-profits
participating,civil society participating
setting some standards andframeworks.
Say,if you are designing a software
these are technical standards you need to
follow.
If you are designing a complaints management
system, this is what you should do.
So I think if you can look at some
frameworks andstandards whichare issues
so whenever people are writing software
interoperability increases
rather than trying to adopt it to your
context
and convening coalescing people around
problems thatare more important
most important to solve.
I think I have a worry aboutit,is thatit's
a great idea
and it could be great in practice,but I
worry thatthe way cities run and
are managed is thatsome neighborhoods
some parts of the city will have a great
experience andhave great benefits
and life will go smoothly,and some parts
of cities will just be kind of neglected.
That's the thing I'm most concerned.
That will be another example of inequity,
and that's just graceful.
I want to step a few for a second, in terms
of you had tremendous scale of recently.
8,000 cities,you've scaled to two
different continents now
something we've seen in terms of code
andbeing able to scale.
Can you comment a little bit aboutwhere
you see thatpotential is to go forone
and two,to see how the idea of bringing in
all different parts of society
from academics,to industry,to civil
society
to potentially bring in all parts of
society sothat we don't have the inequities
and everyone has an opportunity to
participate in the digital services.
So I think a couple of things thatwe have
learned along the line,one is,you got to
and what you're saying is exactly right
you cannot have a uniform approach,you
need to have a unified approach
which is saying,here are the ways,in a
particular context
you don't want to build a whole thing
again,but the problem that
you're solving is unique to you.
So let's not dictate what problem you're
solving
let's say these are the building blocks or
capabilities you have available that
you can use.
And second thing is very important,it's not
aboutgovernment alone,because definitely
whereI come from
a lot of the marginalized people actually
service by the non-government NGOs
with people WHOlived in remote areas.
So two things,one is,you need to create
some kind of a
like a Linux kind of operating system
which has data registries,building
blocks,which are open,interoperable
context independent,right?
So if you need to raise a ticket,you need
to raise a ticket,there's a process for
this,if you need to pay a bill,you need to
pay a bill.
So thatbasically reduces the complexity
forsomebody WHO's solving their problem with
their own context.
Second thing is,then you need to create an
operating model
which is not just centered on government
because what happens whenthat happens is
that
it goes in a very difficult control is
very important forgovernment
so I think that's where a thriving
tech-for-good ecosystem is good for that.
And I think much aswe talk aboutmarkets,you
know,markets don't love to work with
the government,this is the truth,right?
So if you can create,you know,again,an
operating system that
everybody understands how it works,okay?
And governments andmarkets can run
programs at scale,or nonprofits and
governments can run programs at scale.
That's when the magic starts happening.
So forexample,in India,if we have built 12
solutions on top of a digit
which is our platform
nonprofits are built 50 plus,markets
andgovernments,so I think that
whole thing of how do you create energy in
the system
to solve problems in their own context?
And then the kind of everybody takes
ownership of their own piece.
So, yeah. Question to Dirk, if you would.
As Virash was saying,there's lots of
different reasons to engage with
open source to solve challenges.
You have some unique ways of,I
think,presenting that
the challenges are different between
different,various different regions
yet we can still have commonality in terms
of the approach.
Could you talk to some about some of the
driving forces that you're experiencing?
Yeah.
We have a strong belief that we have to
save our digital sovereignty.
We saw in the last two years in Germany,
but worldwide, the problems with the
energy system, the energy dependence.
And I think thatis at least asimportant
forthe digital sovereignty,at least as
important asenergy sovereignty.
And sowe have designed our way to solve a
digital sovereignty in different fields
anddifferent pillars.
We use open source technology in our state
IT solutions fromthe workplace
fully digital workplace andso on.
And I think that's also a way forindustrial
policy,for our domestic digital economy
andfor business models
for our digital economy. And that's a
very, very important point for our state.
Of bringing all stakeholders to the table
andachieving the rapid innovation into
the space
I'm going to turn to Giza for a second in
terms of innovation from academia.
We have seen throughexperimentation
specifically around OSPO's foropen science as
the idea of code is a product
to help achieve open science.
When we look to say how do we bring the
innovation into the cities at scale
so that we can solve these challenges
rapidly and more rapidly.
Could you perhaps talk to the impact
potential of getting the global system of
academia more involved in these
challenges?
Yeah, I totally agree.
I think that's very interesting.
Scientists have another role.
I mean, we say that we live in a decade of
transformation. We have climate issues.
We have also a lot of technical issues.
So that means for me as a scientist that
my role is a different one.
I'm not doing research formy peers,so I'm
writing an article and
five people are reading this article
andI'm super cool.
So it's more that I go out.
We do a lot of living lab methodology in
our lab
so we include a lot of stakeholders
already right fromthe beginning.
We do a lot of agile software development.
We have a lot of power users, test users
so that we work very, very people-centered
and that we can not only create knowledge
and then communicate it to someone,
but already the process of creating
knowledge is together with
a lot of different stakeholders.
This winter I taught withRichard andKiev
andKiev School of Economics about
rebuilding Ukraine,for example.
It was very highly political.
How can you use data?
How can you use open source technologies
for rebuilding a country in war?
So this is something thatI really like andI
think science can be very,very powerful
andI really like to reflect on all my
colleagues'
reflect on their role of being scientists
because
there is a certain habit still to be very
inside andnot communicate very openly and
be very silent andthat's not good.
Going from the siloed nature of that, I'm
going to go to Richard for a second.
You have a lot of experience,small
butmighty
I believe it was the term you threw around
whichimpressed me greatly.
With thatsmall andmighty-ness,can you
speak to a little bit about
building cross-border solutions andthe
challenges of cross-border solutions?
I know frommy own experience seeing thatin
Europe and
the idea of public administration is
cooperating,seeing the idea with
the United Nations in terms of the ability
to explore the scale of digital public
goods across borders.
As we now look to cities anddigital
services
can you speak to your some of your
experiences?
Yeah, for sure, that's a great question.
I think when
it comes to understanding how to be
effective in cross-border collaboration
I think the secret source thatwe're trying
to work foris that
line between what's scalable,what's
generic,what's copyable andwhat's unique and
complex.
That's why I think this topic of cities is
soimportant becausewhat we see often is
thatregional country-to-country type
collaborations have been at such a high level
thatthey lose all the complexity
anduniqueness of urban communities.
But actually if you go intosub-communities
within urban areas
you sometimes see a lot of connection across
borders to say a neighborhood in Durban
or Cape Town
Johannesburg or Kampala or Nairobi may
share similar types of needs
and types of use.
And soI think the more thatyou start to
understand
and it was said actually earlier today
the community needs a common problem or
vision whenit comes to building open source
but whenit comes to actually anything.
But sometimes those can be shared and
it's understanding what parts of those are
able to be shared and
how to curate uniquely.
I think talking to Virge has also given a
good understanding of thatacross 8
000 cities,but I think it's also aboutthis
role of what each stakeholder plays
because,you know,especially within the
continent andwithin cities in Africa,there is
somuch need forcrowding of the rights
investment fromall sectors.
So if academia is not active or living,
that's a real big challenge.
But if it is
the academic connection between different
regions can really support a lot of
knowledge transfer
a lot of support.
Once again,there's amazing,vibrant,innovative
open source communities that
need to be pointed in the right direction.
And I think sometimes they get too
siloed,or aswe heard,like literally from
the panel before
there's a lot of excitement around a
hackathon or something like that.
As opposed to what I would see the role of
what we're talking about
here is how do you build a community
thatgrows andsustains around matching people
thatcan build open source withthe problems
like,and then within that.
And then I think really critically is it's
institutional government
and the maturity inside digital
governments to share witheach other.
And I think understanding how to take
healthy competition between cities and
leverage that,but also like set up.
So what we do,a lot of it open cities lab
is trying to set up the platforms for
sharing,for communities of practice,for
taking,again,open source tech that
we built around a certain problem andthen
understanding how to take a user design
around it to a new context,and then learn
fromthat to build that
cross border type initiative.
And then very, very fundamentally is not
to build a new empire.
I think the whole thing we're talking
abouthere is thatthe way we do open source for
good,for the SDGs,for government has often
followed a commercial model
or like business model,and I think that's
just not how it works.
And sothe whole fundamental way thatwe
build tech needs to change forlike
for government.
And I think that approach is really
critical.
Do you for a second?
We talk a lot aboutcommunities between
developers,but we don't speak to asmuch about
community between different regions
andstakeholders in those regions
the cooperation between the cities andthe
stakeholders themselves.
I want to throw the question to you
and then I want to open up the panel a
little bit to ask each other questions as
a community of stakeholders to ask each
other questions,but Mark
maybe you could start.
Yeah,so the more I think you can work
outside of public sector
the longer an initiative or the more
people can be bought intosomething that
can surpass any change thathappens on just
the political cycle we work through.
I'll share one of the thinking examples
are important.
In Baltimore,we just launched an economic
scorecard,and we collaborated with
seven jurisdictions in our region,all the
private sector,the public sector
to quantify on an annual basis how much
investment was happening in the region.
And it was really to send a market signal
in areas that
are seeing tremendous growth in areas
thataren't.
But we learned fromMiami,we learned
fromPittsburgh,we learned from
Charlotte of similar models thatthey had
deployed that
are actually helping their stakeholders
really make investment decisions aswell.
And to me,those are the types of things
thatopen source data can morph into
that actually has the impact thatpeople
want to see.
Do you want to add to some of the discussion
I just heard here,like we talked first
abouthow different parts of city anddifferent
city are really different,and when
you develop open source software forthese
cities,you have to put in consideration
the diversity and the differences in that
city.
And we come up withidea of developing
sandbox forunique neighborhood where
we change or the regulation,we implement
different software thatwe experiment with
these neighborhoods
or we expand these to different city or
the whole range of cities,and we make sure
thatthis is a success story to be
implemented.
One of the main examples we did asa
ministry was a software thatwas developed as
open source concept
called Snab andSend where
we utilize the public effort to send all
the information regarding visual pollution
within the city
sowe can asa government solve them all
over the governmental platforms.
And then fromthere we moved to different
layer also in an experiment where
we develop a gamification concept forthe
people to like test this report thatcome
fromother people to make sure it's valid.
So we can allocate resources sowe do waste
the governmental resources and
also that's made like money forthe people
WHOdevelop thatopen source andthere's so
many ideas thatwe did at the same
platform.
And this idea was not able to be done without
the cooperation between government and
academia becausewe have somany resources,academia
resources,research centers that
implement different software innovation
but
with no issue or problem to solve at the
first place.
So it's amazing.
There's a pattern happening.
There is amazing papers is published
andfive people reading this paper but
no implementation andactual implementation
butwith the collaboration with
governmental entities thatcan identify the
issues forthese researchers to invent
and implement andthen connect them to the
investment ecosystem andenrich that
investment ecosystem.
We could not do it andwe're learning it's
baby step forus andI think it's baby step
foreveryone but
I think the right way to do it is by
connecting all of the silo connecting all of
the dots to thrive together.
Just fromthe point of cooperation beyond
open source,I think our experience in going
fromIndia to Africa andnow to South East
Asia,I think thatis the biggest driver.
And other thing I want to add is you got
to think of capacity from day one.
The day one conversation is that we have a
catalytic role.
This is a software developed in another
open source is travels easily but
for your context and
for your sustainability of the programs
you're running on top of it.
So whether they are nonprofits like CRS in
Africa or you know government in
Mozambique or in Liberia
the conversation day one conversation has
to be that
this is not a this is now your software
andyou need to think aboutfrom day one.
How will the capacity to sustain that will
emerge and invest in that.
So almost 30% of our resources today are
on training andenablement because
if you don't know if you don't have a day
one conversation
then you create a dependency andthat
thatmakes it difficult.
Dirk, thank you for your for your event.
I think that's a point.
We need translation channel forimplementing
the solutions fromthe researcher for
scientists andthat is not soeasy forus in
our state.
I think for for all.
And I have the question if if there's
somebody need an idea for
that to make it easier.
We founded a hub andbring the stakeholder
together and
we developed solutions on solutions
withthe small administrations and
social institutions withthe domestic digital
economy andto bring showcases andso on.
But the implementation to in other
administrations is extremely hard.
I can add something to that.
I think the problem if we're talking
fromgovernmental perspective and
that's the case here thatgovernmental
entities usually think asa doer.
They want to do things. They want to
implement things and change and help.
And the new mindset to make this a reality
is to rethink that
and be an enabler organization whereyou
open doors forpeople to do things.
You make sure that
you change the regulation the way they
need this regulation to be changed.
You change the data regulation the way
they need to be changed and
assess all different layers of this
development whether it's in the investment and
budgeting level or regulation level or
just given access to those people WHO
connect them together.
So froma doer to enabler is the key I
think for
government to be part of this development
becausewe cannot do it all.
We have to create the ecosystem.
Can I also add something?
I mean, we talked about the labs already
here.
I mean, Richard is here.
We are here.
You mentioned that Lindsay in your speech,
city labs are very good for this.
It's an answer to you, Dirk, because a lab
is a neutral space.
Also,when it comes froma university
becausewe are not a company
we don't want to sell something.
We are not a political party.
We are not really part of the government.
We are a bit external.
And I think scientists are a bit more
neutral.
I mean, we are not neutral 100%, but we
have not a political agenda, first of all.
And this is why I think labs can be spaces
of experiments and
they can be also spaces of translation.
And what we do is this multistakeholder
approach.
So we work with schools.
We work with our mayor.
We can work with the UN.
So we have a complete open way of
including as many stakeholders as possible.
And that's maybe a good way of doing it.
I'm going to move it to one thing,and then
Richard will allow you to comment
but I think this might be directly in line
withwhat we've talked aboutbefore.
We're here at the United Nations talking
about the sustainable development goals.
And cities are the laboratory wherewe're
going to localize the SDGs becausewe're
you know,not every region is the same
andwe need to localize them.
How can open source and
more importantly open source program
offices help us achieve the SDGs asone?
And how can we use that
experimentation of the lab between the
various different cities around the globe to
actualize the learnings
thatwe've had forthe last two days?
That it open source is in all these
different verticals,but aswe apply them for
impact to achieve the SDGs locally
what would be some of the ways that
you might want to personally get involved
in your organization to help actualize
that?
Open up to the panel. Richard.
Okay,so I mean,I think this might
transition to that
because one of the critical terms in this
session is network.
And I think how to leverage networks of
cities,networks of labs and
these sorts of things will be the answer.
So one of the critical things I see and
I'm interested to experience is another
part of the global majority
but is an incredible over-reliance into
some degrees capture of especially local
governments by vendors.
And you're talking aboutorganizations or
companies that
have revenue bigger than the GDPs of any
of these countries
dealing in a one-to-one relationship
withsmall cities,towns
and the power is just the power distance
is just off the charts.
In those sorts of environments,especially
withgovernment tending to be lower risk
andall of these sorts of things,we get to
the point where
we outsource our digital governance andour
digital public goods.
But what can happen in terms of OSPA,in
terms of network labs
in terms of network cities is we can start
to build more power to negotiate.
We can build more understanding of why
it's socritical to invest into
the digital public infrastructure space
why the problems of mobility andurban
resilience andhousing and
all of these things can't be modules within
some sort of corporate technology alone.
And I'm not arguing forworld without
vendors
but I think understanding how to use the
network of learning and
supports the enabling ecosystems thatget
the right mix andstart to open the space
foropen source is the absolute next step
thathas to happen.
It has to be action,it has to be workshops
it has to be like all of us looking at what
we've built,what platforms are existing
what governments we've worked with,like
how they can connect to each other.
I think there's very direct specific actions
we can do fromthe people in this room
on this panel
in terms of taking this idea of what a
networked city in terms of open source looks
like
what an OSPA looks like,and especially how
to take thatidea of building momentum
or at least opening the space for
some of these innovations to be able to
land properly.
Yeah, I think I would just say networks
and action networks.
So what would be really cool is fromthis
room
we can identify two or three action networks
whichcan work on a specific geography
a specific problem andsay let's join hands
together andlook at this problem and
maybe then
there's an OSPA office from you and can
step in and do the convening.
Then we can actually show how this
cooperation is working because
I think one of the things withopen source
I find
especially in area of public services,there's
a risk oflessness withthe bureaucrats
thatthis is not true one.
So if you can actually exemplify the hair
of five open source communities that
came together andin a geography at speed
could solve a problem by combining forces.
That'll be amazing proof of the pudding
that we can give to the world.
Dirk, and then I'm going to open it up to
the fourth.
I can give you a very concrete example.
We speak aboutinclusion if we talk
aboutthe SDGs andI spoke about
the replacement of our IT system.
We replace the Microsoft Office to
LibreOffice and
we implement in LibreOffice accessibility
checker.
We check the documents of accessibility
forour administration and
this solution is now available forthe
community for200 million users.
And that's a very concrete example how
open source software can provide SDGs.
This is a large panel witha lot of
knowledge andI'm very happy to thank you for
everyone forbeing part of this largeness
andthe governance structure that
we put together just now to allow you all
to get your views out.
Thank you. Without opening it up to the
floor for questions for this large panel.
Good afternoon.
I have so much to react after this today
so I'll try to be brief.
And I want to quote what was the most
important advocate for
open source in government in Brazil 20
years ago.
My name is Roberto Jio WHO was the
Minister of Culture not a technical person.
And for those of you WHO are interested
you can look for it in the Internet.
And you used to say thatpeople know what
they want but
people also want what they don't know yet.
And I think if you orient the effort to
promote more open source practices in
government only towards solving problems
or sharing practices we are missing a lot
in the culture aspect of open source.
And as was said a lot of times here open
source is culture.
But also I want to note to Professor
Lindsey Thompson thatculture has been about
sharing andI would say thatculture has
been open source for
thousands of years before the last three
or four hundred years.
So I think there is one reference that I
want to make.
I've just spent, you know, my name is
Felipe in Germany.
I can be called Dr.
Schmidt-Fonseca.
I just spent five years researching
material generosity in cities.
One of the most important discussions that
we can have in relation to technologies in
cities is that
orienting efforts on a base of promoting
efficiency is always misleading.
And there is this reference of Ivan
Elish,one of the authors that
I think are interesting to bring to the
discussion that
is we should be reorienting society
towards conviviality instead of efficiency.
Because efficiency is always a matter of
solving a problem forone kind of people and
in city administration particularly
withinternational consultancies working forthem
andbeing hired.
It's always about promoting more control
and data that will promote more control.
So maybe my question to everyone on the
panel is how can you promote more
conviviality in the practices
thatrefer to open source.
I always think thatconviviality is way
more aligned to the SDGs and
to doing good than efficiency in
thatcontext.
But some things thatprevent you
fromexperiencing conviviality because
they're not efficient.
If I can't get good water andmy water
system is very efficient,it's hard for
me to be convivial.
And so
I think we need to look at what things need
to be efficient in order to free people
to actually build real relationships
andenjoy their lives.
But I think the point you make is technology
can be a tool forcentralization and
sucking agency out andit's a very fair
concern.
And that's where the design is important,
that we need to design it.
It is relevant forthe politics andthe
structure of that
particular country or the society.
An example being you can have one platform
for the nation but it's a federal nation.
So you should have ability to have an
instance of thatplatform with
the data choice of thatparticular region
to whether they want to share the data with
the party whichis in the center.
Similarly from state to the city.
So I think those kind of what we got
federated architecture architecture which
takes the cognizance of what are the
social realities in a particular locality.
But I think nothing can beat what some
people call the local sites of contestation.
That you are actually going to go to your
supervisor forwater andsay we need water.
And that technology can never replace
that.
That's the human side of cities and
every locality will have its own flavor of
how they get their rights.
But I think thatconcern is valid thatit
should not become a force of centralization
becausethat is the opposite of having
livable cities.
Can I also add something Jacob?
No please.
I wanted to say whenyou ask people
aboutwhat do you want fromyour city
they always give the same answers.
They want neighborhood, good social
cohesion.
They want green nature in the city.
They want culture, education and jobs.
They don't speak about mobility.
They don't speak about efficiency.
I've never heard that as an answer.
So I totally agree with you.
We do a lot of citizen engagement
processes in our lab.
So we invite a lot of citizens to talk
about the city.
And forus it's more the process of talking,the
process of bringing them together and
going througha process decision making
together.
It's not so much about the result.
It's more aboutcreating a space
wherepeople can speak with
the help of a little technology.
The technology is super simple and it's
not the most important thing in the room.
And then create a kind of cohesion or,
like you said, conversation.
So that's my experience.
We never speak about it.
People don't want an efficient city.
That's not sexy at all.
Thank you, Giza.
Unless there's any question fromthe
panel,we're going to take more questions from
the attendees.
I want to present some reflections aswell
asask comments on these reflections from
the panel andas well asa call to action
foreverybody here involved.
My job is in the mobility andtransportation
space,and it is very much to do with
the livability of the cities.
Going forward fromnow,two in three people
are going to live in the cities from
now onwards in aboutjust 10 to 15 years.
That means the demand for mobility would
be three times than we have today.
Imagine everybody having a car
whether I see car or hydrogen car or EV
car or flying car,whatever car they have.
It's not going to make lives livable in
the cities.
Therefore
cities are now moving towards a multimodal
situation wherein we can present public
transit
asa major role towards livability index of
the cities.
Now,particularly whenwe talk aboutaffluent
cities fromnow onwards 10 years fromnow
my belief,and I strongly believe in
thatand strong faith in this
that the affluent city tomorrow is not
going to be a city witha lot of wealth.
But affluent city is going to be one where
residents would use public transit
affluent.
Not cars, too much.
And therefore,when cities start to talk
aboutthis multimodal usage
because it's mobility,it comes around
multi-stakeholder conversations.
Each city, each transport operator works
in silos, and it's terrible in that way.
However,in 2020,I actually left my car in
support forpublic transit
and I was able to reduce my personal
emissions from
150 grams per kilometer to less than 5
grams per kilometer.
And that happened pretty quick. Imagine
doing this at a million population scale.
However, that also comes that you need to
download many apps, many transit systems.
You have to navigate through multiple
things.
And worse,if you are in Europe or if
you're traveling between Europe andstates
I was in the Bay Area and
it was a horrible situation of traveling
in the Bay Area using public transit.
It's a mess all around.
But the opportunity here lies that
because it's a multi-stakeholder engagement
involved wherethere are private parties
andpublic parties andcities coming
together,the challenge here that
we have constantly seen is that
every city or every country or every
transit operator comes down to saying
"We want to invent something, and others
want to follow."
So there are standards being developed in
Netherlands,which they want to push,well
others want to follow our standard.
Then there are other standards being
followed in Nordics.
They say,"Well,this is the standard we are
going to follow
and others will follow eventually."
In India,I also am an evangelizer forBecken
Protocol,and we also have been talking
abouta lot of it,but we come froma
different position where
we are looking at the marriage of
different protocols coming together.
What I would like to ask this panel is how
do you,in your everyday work,as dealing
withcities andvarious stakeholders,bring
the different learnings from
different cities across the globe
be it in India or Netherlands or in Latin
America or anywhere part of the globe
to learn fromeach other in practice than
just in theory.
We have heard a lot of theoretical
aspects,but in practice
how do you bring them together sothat they
realize that
what works elsewhere could also be a
solution forour city.
We need not keep on reinventing the wheel
andtherefore create a livable index
a livable city going forward.
The call to action is we have been working
towards a three-continental solution at a
very minor skill
which involves Bangalore,Netherlands,and
the Bay Area
which is a community-driven solution,which
involves community startups,as well as
public organizations
and hopefully we should be able to present
the results next year.
I hope so,we are totally intoit
and the call to action is if you can help
us out in this particular initiative
either asa city,either aseven city science
labs,or even asa startup or even as
a public organization,we definitely
welcome you.
I would like to ask the panel on this
particular situation
how do we actually bring this to practice
wherecities collaborate really
not really in silos,but actually network
together?
Well,I do thatthrough my university,alumni
andstudents,it's a small start
but my theory andpractice of this is you
have to have real relationships withpeople
you can't just throw something out there.
I think one of the opportunities we have
in this room is we are real people really
here together
and we could start thinking abouthow can
we build thatnetwork.
So it's ongoing, so we meet more than once
a year, that's not enough.
So thatwe have ongoing relationships
wherewe're focusing on problems together and
opportunities together,I think we could do
that.
Yeah,I think the way to do it is to do,so
thatsounds simple,but OCL,the way that
we have decided to implement any type of
digital strategy,data strategy policy
is to make sure thatthere are use cases
being applied aswe go.
And that's any type of change process or
strategy process or policy process
not taking theoretical lessons,but actually
having practical implementation and
being pivoted by the lived experience of
thatcontext.
And sowith that
you start to understand how a ride sharing
app or a mobility question or a where's
my bus or how to optimize routing
what level to whichthat can be used,like
thatcode or that
those sorts of models can be used
and what degree they need to be supported
locally or changed or adapted or
recreated.
And I think that's the discussion that
I suppose have the opportunity to get to
if we're networked is getting more and
more refined aboutunderstanding how,like,where
to generalize andwhere to specify
whereto go big,where to go unique,and a
lot to what a lot of the panel has said.
Is it comes down to this user-centered
design idea, but I hate that word.
I hate the idea that it's been co-opted
into, like, happy customers.
I mean, we were talking about the idea of
smart cities being happy people.
Like,if a smart city,if you're happy,as a
citizen,means your needs are met
but to be happy
it means a huge amount of those complex
problems you're talking about.
And,you know,looking at just reading on
one of my colleagues,Richard Pope,talking
aboutthe experience of the GDS in the
UK,you know,sometimes the over-efficiency
the oversimplification of a user problem
that
often a lot of open source is deployed to
solve
writes out the complexity of the user's
experience.
We're not customers, we're residents, and
so I think a lot of it is about that.
It's aboutunderstanding
and that's why I said the business model
or the idea of an OSPO at a city level is
completely different
because what we're trying to do is not get
down to thatsort of user design that
says we validated witha focus group,you
know,whatever.
So,say,like,this is a complex space,it's a
contested space
we may have to hold this contested space
for10 years whilewe slowly evolve anddesign
andlearn withit.
So,what are the structures thatexist to
support us doing thatat a local level
organizations like ours
and how can we get sort of the connection
to share those up to this sort of place?
Yeah, I like the way it.
I think what I could argue that
the mobility space in the last decade is
probably one of the most vibrant innovation
spaces
right?
Whether it's been apps,waterway better
usage,scooters,autonomous vehicles
across the board,cities are being reimagined
at a pace thatis very difficult for
the public sector to keep up.
So, kind of flag that, right?
I do think COVID gives us a little
breathing room,because it has
at least in the United States,eliminated
some traffic
even though it may be hard to imagine.
That said
it's going to take a lot of work to move
all of our markets to a smarter approach
because it is by far the most complicated
equity,climate-related
just built environment issue of our time.
One or two more questions from the floor.
First of all.
Can you hear me now? Okay, thank you.
Thank you for this great panel.
I would like to bring the topic of informal
settlements and urban informality team.
My name is Washington Fahartlow.
I'm the coordinator of the Inter-American
Development Bank City's Lab.
In the last six years,we have been
developing andoffering open source tools for
the region to help cities to map informality,to
measure the rate of urban growth.
But our understanding that we need better
collaboration to this kind of effort.
According to the UN
we have more than one billion people living
in formal settlements around the world.
And we still face several barriers to
implement the simple act of mapping
informality in cities.
Everything starts withaccess to
high-quality satellite imagery
the restriction on upper-source solutions
to GIS,the lack of local capacities
and also the difficulties and local
computing capacities as well.
So I would like to hear the panelists in
this topic.
It's not only a pattern forland use
we have one billion people living in this
condition
and especially looking at climate change
andall the challenges that
we are facing now.
Those families and people living in the
world in the most vulnerable condition.
And we need to include those people
andpublic policies in better investments
and data can be really revaluable
andefficient to do that.
I would like to hear the panelists in this
topic. Thank you.
Thank you very much for this question.
And thank you forraising up the topic of
informality,because whenwe speak about
city planning,informality is,of course,one
of the biggest issues.
I mean,we say approximately 30% of mankind
lives in an informal surrounding
but it's really a lot,and it's increasing.
And we also do a lot of mapping in
informal settlements.
We also cooperate with your institution or
your organization.
And it's a specifically urgent andpressing
topic,but it's also technical-wise not so
easy.
I mean,we came up witha tool thatmaps
informal settlements so
that you can understand the growth of
informal settlements
but settlements are so different in so
many countries.
They look so different, images look very
different.
You can use satellite image, drone image,
aerial images.
Every city uses different images, and the
topography of the areas are very different,
and also what someone calls informal
settlement is already different.
So the borders are very fluent between
formality and informality.
So there are many,many reasons why using
urban tech for
spatial equity or social equity in the
context of informality is very urgent
but also not so difficult technical-wise.
And I wanted to say scaling up is
sometimes also a myth for me.
And I'm sometimes very annoyed about
hearing this.
So you have a tool, then scale it up to
the world.
I mean, this is also the UN approach, of
course.
It is not soeasy to scale up a tool
thatwas meant for
Durban to scale it up to a city in Central
America
that has a complete different way of
building an informal settlement.
So important, but not challenging.
Richard, real quick, and then we're going
to go back.
Yeah, so I just want to talk to you.
Like, why do we want to map informality?
What does informality mean?
Who are the vulnerable people there? Do
they want to be found?
I think, you know, it's a great, and I'm
not disagreeing with this, or the concept,
don't get me wrong, of mapping informal
settlements.
But if we're talking about, say, in our
context, Afro-feminist futures for cities
and an idea that
we need to unthink what the global
minority has defined is informality
then I think that's one place to say,
well, you know,
the point is start with what the problem
is you're trying to solve.
Why are you trying, is it like a disaster
response?
Is it a housing thing?
What happens when you map, you provide
incredible amounts of data
and pinpoint people sothat their houses
can be destroyed by a government that
doesn't want them to be there?
You know,and withthe open data movement
we saw what happened in all of the
optimism of OGP
and then what happened when the government
changed in certain countries,
and we realized, like, open data could be
used by anyone for anything.
And I think source is the same, and I
think that the point is,
if we take open source and we become
another technosolutionist,
supply-side thinking group, this would be
pointless.
So I suppose fornetwork cities have to
understand that
the time to bring in technology is --
and the time to engage withopen source is
once we've understood why and
WHO's problem we're solving forwhat.
So to expand on Roger's point about
federal versus central versus, you know,
I think like just even that question of
that is a really great topic
that we're not going to solve in this panel,
but just the idea of why are we mapping,
what informality means, what we're trying
to get out.
It starts to give us questions of how to
curate that.
Just one intervention. I think your point
is valid.
If the purpose is clear
this is something called Jaga Mission in a
state called Odisha in India
but the purpose was to give land rights to
the slum dwellers.
And because the purpose was clear, 200,
000 slum dwellers got land rights.
The biggest land rights program in the
world
the community themselves mapped their
areas.
So I think in those communities, your
point is valid.
People are really afraid of being seen.
But if you give them -- that's why it's a
bit of a political problem,
mapping informal settlements, because
their purpose is to remain invisible.
But when there was a purpose, political
purpose behind it,
it led to the largest land entitlement
program in the world.
It got UNDP award in Jaga Mission.
Sorry. And another topic is of course
climate.
I mean,we had somany informal settlements
that
have been washed away by heavy rainfalls.
So there are some reasons for doing it.
But I understand what you see.
When you understand your why, then do it.
You're going to start wrapping up.
I apologize. We would love to take more of
your questions.
The panelists will be around today.
Unfortunately, we were running out of
time, and we want to get to the planaries.
I wanted to close by thanking the
panelists here today.
And to thanking everyone here from the
open source world that has come together.
I think the next phase in the ability
forthe open source community to engage with
problem solving
and to take the lessons learned from20
years of open source and
20 years of OSPO in industry
and apply them to new mission goals is the
undiscovered country that
I'm looking forward
to working with you. Thank you.
[ Applause ] Okay, folks.
We have time for just a little bit of
feedback.
And then we have one more panel for you
all before our closing plenary.
So please take the time to scan the QR code
and provide some feedback on our panel.
So thank you so much for our panel on open
source network cities.
I know it's getting late in the day, but
yes, we have just one more discussion.
So please bear with us.
To help cap things off,we have a very
interesting spotlight panel lined up for
you all.
This one on engaging the open source
community.
This panel will explore in depth the ways
towards realizing the potential of a
resilient
andopen
internet throughmore intentional and
collaborative community engagement in the
spirit of both
open source and global digital
cooperation, e.g. achieving the SDGs.
To introduce this panel andour lineup of
panelists
please give me a big hand in welcoming
Sachiko Muto to the stage.
Sachiko is an academic and tireless open
source advocate.
She is the chairman of the board at Open
Forum Europe,as well as
a senior researcher at the
RISE Research Institutes of Sweden
where she does a range of research on open
source
open innovation, and much, much more.
Sachiko, welcome to the stage.
[applause] Yes, thank you, Nick.
And yes,I think I deserve thatround of
applause,actually,for just for
agreeing to moderate
the panel for this time slot.
[laughter] Well, you're awake.
[laughter] I wasn't even going to try the
good afternoon, you know?
I think some people did the good
morning,but I wasn't sure that
the good afternoon was
going to get the same response.
So, yeah, but, yeah.
It's 4.30, day two of this conference, and
another day without a coffee break.
So,you know,but it's a bigger audience
still here than I expected
so that's really great.
We chose, I think, this time slot for one
of the crucial panels of the day, actually.
And this is wherewe're going to talk
abouthow the open source community,and that
means
everyone in this room can be leveraged to
accelerate the SDGs.
And a couple of people have already
mentioned last year's event
and one of the takeaways
I had fromthat event was whenOmar,Omar is
in the room
Omar didn't just show us around
this building, but he also gave us a bit
of background on the process of the SDGs.
And also,I think,looked at us all,you
know,in the eyes and
said it's incumbent on all of us
to contribute to the achievement or to the
making progress on the SDGs,and that
included
the open source community.
So, I think we have, you know, come to the
UN.
We are a bigger crowd gathering this year
than last year
and I think this is really fun.
It is really fantastic.
I think if you have,at least in my social
media flow,I see a lot of selfies
maybe more
selfies than for most conferences I
attend.
People got their photo taken in the ECOSOC
chamber of the United Nations.
But, of course, the question is, and I think
it has already been raised by some of the
speakers, and it was reiterated by
Frederick Bachetta just this afternoon.
What are we going to do when we leave this
room?
How are we going to take this enthusiasm
and do something about it?
And I am sort of optimistic that we all
are here because we want to contribute.
It's not just about the selfies in this
room and the gift shop.
You know,we want to contribute,but I think
some of us andmyself included
I would say
we don't see that there is a direct connection
with what we do every day and the SDGs.
I saw somebody saying, I see a connection.
I mean, I do think that there is a sort of
feeling that, well, I am not working on this.
I am happy to go to this conference
but how do I change what I do in my daily
work after
this conference?
And it's a question I am asking myself
and I think we should try to challenge
everybody
in this room to think aboutone thing
thatwe can do sothat when
we come back next year
Mitz, we are coming back, right, Omar, we
are coming back.
We can deliver something, we can say what
we did, conversations we had, collaborations
we initiated, et cetera.
So to help me withthis,I am happy to be
joined by a great panel withspeakers WHO
have actually
done something like this in their daily job,
and I think we are hoping that we can get
some inspiration from these speakers, and I
am hoping to also challenge those speakers
to say what have you done and what more
can be done.
I would like to welcome Hillary Carter,
first of all, to the stage, Hillary.
Hillary is the senior vice president of
research and
communications at the Linux Foundation.
There she leads a team dedicated to
creating insights into
the impact of open source technologies
across various sectors, including
financial services, healthcare and energy.
Before Hillary joined the Linux
Foundation,she served as
managing director at the Blockchain
Research Institute, where she oversaw the
development and publication of more than 100
research projects,and I think you are off
to a good start of the Linux Foundation as
well.
It is very productive. Applause for
Hillary.
Next,I would like to welcome Omkar
Arazaratnam
WHO is the general manager of the open
source
security foundation, OpenSSF.
He is a veteran cybersecurity andtechnical
risk management executive with
more than 25 years
of experience leading global
organizations.
Before joining the OpenSSF, he led security
and engineering organizations at financial
and technology institutions such as Google,
JP Morgan, Chase, Credit Suisse, and Deutsche
Bank.
Omkar is also a published author anda NYU
cyber fellow advisory council member and
a senior
fellow with the NYU Center for
Cybersecurity.
Next,Taj Taylor is the VP of data science
and
engineering at the Wikimedia Foundation
where he leads teams in machine learning,research
anddecision science,data platform
and the
teams working on the foundation's core
software platform,Media Wiki,which is a free
andopen
source server based Wiki software
application.
That was a pretty long sentence.
After joining the Wiki Media
Foundation,Taj served as
chief technology officer at Catalyst.
Taj also serves on the advisory board of
the Media Research Lab, Harmony Labs.
And last butnot least,Arun Gupta is vice
president and
general manager of open ecosystem
efforts at Intel Corporation.
He's an open source strategist, advocate
and practitioner for over two decades now.
He's taken companies such as Apple, Amazon
and Sun Microsystems through systemic changes
to embrace open source principles and
contribute and collaborate effectively.
He's the elected chair of the governing
board of the cloud native computing
foundation and
open source security foundation.
He's been working with the UN to engage
open source communities around SDGs.
Welcome to Arun.
Before I join the panelists on stage, I
just want to say that we are the last panel.
This is the last chance that you all have
to contribute actively to the discussion.
It's a slightly smaller panel,which is
good
I think we'll have a good discussion among
the panelists and then I hope that you have
thought about those burning questions that
you don't want to leave this conference
not having raised.
So join the panel now. Okay, good.
So I have prepared a few questions just to
get us started andthen I think that
the discussion
will move forward quite organically.
But I want to start withyou,Hillary,because
I mentioned thatI myself feel that
sometimes
we don't see the connection necessarily
between what it is thatwe do and
what we are trying
to achieve here for the social good.
So I know that
you've done some research to look at sort
of what Linux foundation does
and how that connects with the SDGs and like
to just ask you to present that work, what
motivated you and maybe you can tell us about
some interesting or surprising findings.
Thank you. Thank you, Satchiko.
It's my great pleasure andan honor to
describe some of the research that
we have done at
the Linux foundation and why we did it.
I think forany leader WHOis making a
decision,it's incredibly helpful for
those decisions
to be rooted in good research andto have
data to back decision making and
to use insights
that are actionable to help drive agendas
forward andto help change mindsets and
compel
decision makers.
And interestingly,we did not begin the
process of exploring sustainability as
a research agenda
for two years after the LF created a
research program.
We were exploring other topics around the
impact of open source in certain
industries.
And it came to be thatacross the
organization,we're a very large organization with
numerous
projects that touch many different domains
in many different industries.
But we asan organization did not have a
clear understanding of the extent to which
or the
ways in whichour project communities were
connected along a framework which
we used the
United Nations sustainable development
goals.
We needed to better understand ourselves.
And sowe set about
to explore how Linux foundation projects
were accelerating the UN SDGs and
in different ways.
We knew thatmany of our project
communities were created with
sustainability at their core.
Projects like LF energy which
is accelerating the electrification of our
world through
open source digital technologies
thattransform our electrical grid and
other operating systems
around it.
We had projects like OS climate whichis
accelerating climate finance and
better understanding
and analytics and tooling.
But what was such a pleasant surprise were
the other projects in our community that
we
really didn't know the extent to which
they were making a concrete impact in
accelerating
the SDGs.
And the most delightful finding thatwe
concluded was that
all of our technical projects and
the communities of practice around them
the SIGs the working groups the DEI working
groups.
All of them accelerate goal nine industry
innovation andinfrastructure that
was a delightful
finding.
So we had this baseline on which to build
plus of course our other projects.
Then we uncovered projects like the Zephyr
project real time operating systems that
were
making an impact in for
life on land SDG 15 in terms of monitoring
white rhinoceros monitoring
and protecting white rhinoceros in
Zimbabwe from poaching.
Or monitoring caribou stocks in northern
Scandinavia the same types of technologies.
So these were delightful discoveries.
All that to say this process of reflection
and knowing thyself is really important.
And it's probably the first thing that
an organization should do is to get a
state of the
union about where are where's your organization
strong and play to those strengths.
Where are the gaps in your organization
asrelates to sustainability and
how can we take
steps to close them.
So I encourage asa methodology
forbeginning accelerated engagement as
it relates to the
sustainable development goals andleveraging
open source is discover through
research where
your organization stands.
What is the state of the union and then go
from there.
So I'll leave that there and we can chat
more about specifics.
Thank you Hillary.
And I do think that it by discovering these
things and making them visible it does add
another sense of purpose I think andcan
show us that
what we are doing it's not just what
we think we're doing butit actually can
contribute to something more and
that it can be a starting
point and something that can attract also
others to a project I can imagine.
Yeah.
So next I'd like to ask you Arun
becausealready in your when
I read your bio it mentioned
that you have been working with the UN
already in some of these hackathons for good.
I'd like you to talk to us a little bit
aboutthat and
perhaps there was a question that
came up during the youth and
open source panel maybe you can also
address a little bit about
this you know becauseI think that
these hackathons are you know probably the
most visible way
that we you know I think thateverybody
knows about
how you know open source or technology
can be leveraged for social good but as we
understand it it's not just about the two
days or whatever thatyou're working on it
there needs to be a process and
a follow-up.
So maybe you could also address that.
Thank you. Yeah absolutely.
So as we have heard this SDGs are a global
problem.
The only way to solve this global problem
is through our global collaboration and open
source is the best way in my opinion on how
we can make this all work for each other.
Last year for example one of my activities
that I do is I help organize TED AI.
This is a TED conference focused on AI
back in the San Francisco Bay Area which
is where
I live. As part of that TED AI we
organized open source hackathon.
We invited people from around the world to
come and hack on the SDGs.
So these people brought their challenges
from their local communities.
We had 90 plus submissions fromall around
primarily US but
then we saw these submissions
because of the space we could only limit
to about 30 plus proposals.
So these 30 plus people 30 plus teams
consisting of two to five people really came
down to San
Francisco. We hosted them.
They hacked on the solutions for two days
non-stop and then we eventually picked three
winners. And there was a lot of excitement
around it.
A lot of energy around it.
Their tool sets were all very different,
very unique.
The only requirement was hey there's got
to be done in an open source manner.
Because even if you are hacking on the
solution for
two days over there we don't want the
process to stop there. We want the process
to continue.
And then open source all of
thatrepositories out and
that was a good collaboration with
LF actually.
So Linux Foundation created a GitHub repo
andorg where
all of these repos are created.
So you can take a look at that solution.
But that was a part of the effort.
Then that sort of lit a fire around other
events as well as a matter of fact.
So I am on the CNCF the Cloud Native
Computing Foundation governing board and
I have been
a chair as well for the last two and a
half years.
So one of the activities thatI got deeply
engaged withis KubeCon
which is sort of our
largest developer event. KubeCon Paris
happened earlier this year.
There were about 13, 000 developers over
there.
And we ran something called as a cloud
native hack exactly on the same principle.
So we again invited developers from around
the world and this time we did not restrict
to Paris.
So we had people coming fromKorea coming
only forthe cloud native hack and
building their
solution around that.
We had people coming fromJapan,we had
people coming from
Turkey all over the place coming
over to hack their solution for the SDGs.
And again, it was really exciting Omar and
I were up on the KubeCon stage and really
talking about what did we do as part of the
cloud native hacks and telling that concept
to 13, 000 developers in a large
conference room was very exciting.
And I could, like right before Omar and I
were going up on the stage, we could feel
the goosebumps.
Because the goal really here is withthe
number of developers thatare out there
can we tap
into 5% of the global open source
developer community?
Just five. Let's start with five.
Can we have 5% of global open source
developer community to come hack on SDG?
That's the way.
So my challenge to you really is,you know
if you are part of a company or an
enterprise
where you are running an event, think about
organizing a hackathon like that, where you
can say, hey, bring your local SDGs, engage
your local communities, do a hackathon.
We have sort of a blueprint, we have done
it a couple of times.
We are doing it again later this year when
KubeCon goes to India.
Ted AI is back in San Francisco in October
this year.
We are bringing that hackathon back again
over there.
So we have sort of a blueprint, we have
done it a couple of times.
So if you want to talk to me on how you
want to do that, think about it again.
The responsibility is upon us.
We want to leave a planet better than we
got it.
Let's go for that.
So if I can just ask you becauseyou made
me curious
is this part of what you are meant
to do aspart of your job description or
does this come from,I mean,it seems that
it comes
from your own initiative andI have been
interested to find out a bit more aboutthat
you know.
How do you make that part of what you do and
make it sort of something that is seen as
valuable as part of your job?
I would say I consider myself very
fortunate,I work at Intel and
Intel has this legacy of
contributing back andgiving back to the
open source,not just forwhat that
benefits Intel
but that make the world a better place as
well.
So whenI went to my boss that,hey,I'm going
to start contributing to this,but that
means
one of some of my work is going to get
impacted inside the company
this is what do you need?
And then they came across andthey
said,okay,you need more people or,you know
let's delegate
some of the things that you are doing to
somebody else so that you can focus on this.
Okay, I'll take up your meeting.
So things like that support is essential
and just a simple story.
Like this morning, my son texted me a picture
that dad, the water sprinkler is leaking.
I spent good 15 minutes with him that,
okay, let's fix that water sprinkler.
So to your point thatyou were saying
earlier
sustainability is in your day to day
action.
It's not just hacking on SDG,but it's making
sure thatbroken sprinkler is fixed and
we
are stopping that water leakage in our
neighborhood, in our home.
So I think in that sense, yes, it is very
much part of my job, you know, whether I'm
at KubeCon or at TED AI, organizing those
hackathons, and it's also a privilege where
I am right now because I'm deeply
connected in the open source community.
So rallying up people around the community
and getting them excited about it, I think
is super important.
Right,but I think that,you know,this
whole,the SDG process,it does make this
it makes
it, there is this opportunity for others
as well, I think, because regardless of WHO
your employer is, I think there's a lot of,
there's a lot of support and endorsement
of this process.
And I think that, you know, just thinking
about, you know, ways that we can all say
go to our employer, for example, and say,
hey, I would like to do this and, you know,
it would also,you know,it will strengthen
our corporate responsibility profile
it will
be, you know, it's a good thing.
And I think that there's a lot of, I think
there will be a lot of appreciation and I
think acceptance.
So, you know, if we just take that first step,
and I'm thinking about ways that I can do
this as well.
So it's, yeah, I think, I would just add
one comment there, talk to your CSR teams.
If you're working foran enterprise
you have a corporate social responsibility
or a sustainability
team. Talk to them. See, what are they
doing in that initiative?
They would be excited about aligning with
SDG, and this is a global challenge.
So whatever you can do, ask up for that
role change, that profile change.
And frankly,I was telling somebody earlier
today
I've been in the open source community
for 20 years,but the last one year has
been sofulfilling,particularly
I've been aligning
with myself on the SDG side of it.
I think you can feel the happiness inside.
So I encourage you to do that.
Thank you for that and the enthusiasm.
I find it inspiring.
Omkar,I want to turn to you because
already in the opening session of this
conference
we heard fromAssistant Secretary General
Bernardo Mariano Jr.,he gave us a challenge
which
one thing was to sort of make,you
know,every conference thatwe make
we make a section
about SDGs, but also about making safe,
secure open source.
And so, again, I would like you to sort of
help us make that connection clear, and there
have been others WHO have talked about open
source security as well, but really, how does
open source security tie in with the SDGs?
And, you know, how do we make sure that open
source security is for everybody also, and
it's not just for those WHO can afford
that extra layer?
Yeah, I think yesterday our colleague Ava
had mentioned this notion of a security tax
in whichpeople that
are trying to monetize open source
software sometimes use the enterprise
security features as
an add-on or something to drive funding or
licensing of some sort
which obviously is something we'd like to
discourage.
So we take a step back, and we look at the
17 SDGs.
They are wonderful Arun,WHO's our board
chair shared an acronym withme
Big Harry Audacious
Goals. They're wonderful.
They will benefit the planet.
And they are truly inspiring, but in order
for us to be successful in these goals, we
need to think about the preconditions that
need to be true.
And one of the major preconditions is,as
we think about
how open source can assist with
these, the open source software itself
must be secure.
If it is insecure while trying to contend
with water safety, or if it is insecure while
trying to contend with food safety, we're
literally doing more harm than we're doing
good.
The wonderful, diverse nature of open
source, meaning it's completely democratized.
Anybody can contribute to open source in
any different way.
You could be an engineer.
You could work on documentation.
You could work on,as part of an OSPO,gathering
interest andinput andensuring that
the word
gets out there. And all these are very
valuable.
And these are the ways that we can make
the SDGs a part of every day.
You don't necessarily have to be working,
Hillary is a great example of Zephyr.
You don't need to be working on an embedded
operating system in order to work in
support
of the SDGs. But you do need to be
thoughtful as to how you do it.
And I think the other key aspect thatif I
look back 25 years to when
I began using open
source andI committed my first line of
code to the Linux kernel
as a young home car in
his 20s, that was incredibly inspiring, the
fact that I could commit to something that
would appear in routers andsatellites
andmainframes and
everything all over the planet.
And I think to borrow some of Arun's
infectious enthusiasm,if we can do this and
do all of
this in a secure manner, that genuinely
makes the world a better place.
So when we think about securing software,
I've worked in tech before, I've had teams
with hundreds of people working on very
discrete features of a much larger product.
And here we have a staff of six.
And we just need to secure all the open
source software
so it'll be done by December.
So we're good.
But in all seriousness, this is something
that we need to think about as we write code,
it should be a precondition as you are
building software to ensure that it's secure.
And I know there's often a bit of
resistance, are we slowing down the process?
Are we hiring the barrier of entry in
order for
people to be able to productively
contribute
code?
I would argue thatnobody questions the
safety requirements of buildings as
impediments
to build. And we should be thinking about
software in the same way.
So my call to action would be if you want
to support all these 17 SDGs, take a look
at the work thatwe've all been doing
whether it be within the OpenSSF or any of
the other
organizations in trying to make open
source more secure.
This could be through education.
This could be through advocacy.
This could be throughworking withpublic
sector as
my colleagues in the OFE have been
assisting
us. This could be simply getting the word
out.
But ensuring thatwe have safe,secure
open source software is a precondition to
us being
able to satisfy all 17 of these SDGs.
Thank you, Amkar.
Yes,I remember there was a speaker fromthe
UN University last year's panel as
well WHO
made this point aboutif we don't have
secure software
then all the SDGs are endangered.
And I also remember I'm a policy person as
you alluded to, and a few years back I was
talking to somebody from the U.
S.
and we talked about cybersecurity and
policy makers.
This was before the CRA.
And I said, well, in Europe we're more
focused on privacy and things like that.
And of course this person said to me, well,
if you don't have security, you don't have
privacy. And I remember that kind of
really stuck with me.
So,Taj,I want to turn to you now
asWikimedia,I think
as sort of the host of Wikipedia
is one of the,I guess,when we think
aboutcommunities
or if you talk to a regular person
on the street to talk aboutcommunities,it's
one of the most visible communities
I would
say,where we know thatit's a sort of
ground up,volunteers really that
are working across
the globe.
And we've heard,I think,in the last couple
of days also aboutthis
how open source makes
it possible forsort of local concerns to
be addressed,you know
place-based knowledge
all of that stuff.
And I wanted to ask you a little bit
aboutsort of how you work with
open source at Wikimedia
how you see thatas part of your larger
sort of open knowledge commitment andmaybe
yeah
part is off like that, and maybe what open
source communities can learn from this sort
of open knowledge community as well,
working with volunteers?
Sure.
As you mentioned, we are the stewards for
Wikipedia, and there's a community of 260, 000
editors around the globe WHO contribute to
that.
Also in the bio, the mouthful about media
wiki, open source software that we host and
use to host Wikipedia,and that's also
available for
others to host wikis of their own.
So we've really grown this community group
together over the last 20-plus years.
The software empowers the community to do
the things that they do.
And it's important to understand
that,like,for us,the community of editors and
the community
of technical contributors WHO
actually contribute code back are actually
significantly overlapped.
And so many people see the software as
tools to do what they want to do.
So if their interest is in curating
knowledge about,you know
the history of wars in Europe
or something like that, and they use tools
to, like, collect lists of pages that they
want to work on, look for problems in the
data, check citations, they write software
in the open and contribute it back to our
environment to support that activity, right?
So the open source work that we do and that
we support with the community is directly
about supporting contribution of open
knowledge.
And that knowledge gets consumed at a
pretty high clip for many people.
Wikipedia is like a first stop to answer a
question that you might have.
Hopefully you all know there's citations and
other links on the page so you can figure
out where that information came from.
But it's sometimes also not so well-known
that Wikipedia's content is also distributed
everywhere else.
So our mission to help people collect
anddisseminate knowledge is both about
the curation of the
knowledge on our platforms, but the
dissemination of it, you know, far and wide.
So sometimes it's visible in obvious
places like whenyou do a search and
there's an info
box and maybe it says it's from Wikipedia
or maybe it doesn't.
But that information also shows up in lots
and lots and lots of other places that people
collect and share information.
Sometimes their services,they're more
formalized,bits of information thatget used as
background
for other kinds of things
or it's just information shared socially
in networks like on WhatsApp.
People will look up things and share facts
with friends and family.
And we're part of the fabric of like knowledge
sharing information on their internet
globally.
Right,so I had an idea forthis panel
thatwe would talk about
sort of first to establish
that there are different ways that
open-source communities are already
contributing to the
SDGs.
I also wanted to sort of talk about
how we can try to enlarge those
open-source communities
bring more people into those communities.
So people from the global majority and
also from underrepresented communities.
And we heard a question was about sort of
the gender representation, which is an issue
in open-source, how we can get more women
into projects.
And I also think thatthis is something
whereI know thatat Wikipedia forexample
there's
also this notion thatyou are trying to get
more women contributing butalso that
we have
more women's biographies, for example
included in Wikipedia etc.
So maybe we can move to talk a little bit
about
how we make our communities more inclusive
some of the ways that we're already trying
to do that and really think also about sort
of not just what, you know, maybe how we
can leverage these experiences to sort of to
the global level, you know, so Taj, maybe
you want to talk first about that and feel,
you know, signal to me when you want to
come in.
Yes. Sure.
So it'll probably help by talking about the
journey that people have when they become
contributors, which typically starts with
a reading experience.
Most people start reading Wikipedia at a
very early age.
It's part of education from primary all
the way through graduate school.
And then at some point some fraction of
those people discover thatthey can edit
because
anyone can edit, including you.
And then at some point you become more
engaged asan editor and
you become deeply involved
in an editor, some fraction of those
people, right?
So whenwe look at like inclusion,it starts
by having content on the site that
the people
you want to include want to see.
So we have a research program called
Knowledge Gaps thatis really about
looking at a full
view of all of the topics that
we think could be represented in an
encyclopedic context.
And then seeing which ones are well
represented on the site and which ones are not.
And there's a particular part of that that
is about gender gaps, as you mentioned, about
biographies. For example, we have a
program called Wiki Women in Red.
So what that means, when you're on Wikipedia,
if you see someone's name and it's written
in red, it means that a person edited that
page and was talking about someone WHO they
think should have a page, but their page
doesn't exist yet.
So Wiki Women in Red is a project to build
out the biographical profiles of women
WHO
are mentioned in other contexts in science,
in history, in mathematics, in politics, and
so on. And open source, yes.
Any endeavor of notability where
you could be mentioned to actually fill
out the history
of those women WHO contributed to their
fields and what their contributions are.
So we have that kind of project to support
that activity.
And that brings people in to edit and
create the pages.
And the more you contribute asan editor
the more likely you are to become a
technical
contributor.
Because then you're saying, "Okay, I use
this every day and I wish it had this thing.
How can I make this thing happen? "
So there's another concrete project.
We talked about how to also involve people
WHO are maybe not coding.
Are there, for example, open source women
WHO have made a contribution to open source?
Do they have a Wikipedia page?
I mean, there's a project.
So thank you for that. And I think I'll
cover you.
And then, yeah, okay.
So one of the things that we talk about in
Cybersecurity a lot is the talent shortage
and capacity building and how to do more
of that.
So certainly the notion thatwe do need to
get more people thatidentify as
women involved
is dreadfully apparent in cybersecurity.
I wanted to talk a little bit aboutsome of
the things that
we've been doing both at the
OpenSSF as well as my wife and I have been
involved with personally.
My daughter was quite young when she came
to visit me at work one day.
And she quite adeptly identified the
gender gap as, "Where are all the girls? "
And remember, I've been working in tech.
I've been working in finance.
This is not unusual for people that have
worked in these industries and have walked
into the cubicle farm and seen heads of many
people that identify as men writing code.
So that stuck with me.
And one of the things thatmy wife and
I have been doing is we actually put
together a scholarship
at NYU for women that are entering cyber
engineering master's program.
We had at six scholarships a year,three in
the fall
three on International Women's Day.
And that's helped. It helps a little.
But as you think about how you go about your
day, creating, opening those doors, rather
than having somebody that's already
underrepresented having to take the additional
effort to get
into a space wherethey're already
struggling to get into
let's lower the barrier of entry
there.
Within the OpenSSF,we have a DEI work
group forthis purpose and
we have a number of very
strong contributors thatidentify aswomen
aswell asallies that
help to get presentations
at Grace Hopper thathelp to set up
andparticipate in events such asthe women and
non-binary
lunches that we often host at Linux
Foundation events.
But then I think the thing that we can all
do and the take away the call to action is
study on biasing.
Being either intentionally,which is
terrible
or unintentionally bias in a discussion
creates
a space where people don't feel welcome.
And while I can only observe as an ally and
as a father and as a husband and as a son,
what I can say is thatif we really look at
ways that
we can make spaces feel safer for
others, we will get more participation.
But I would love to hear fromyourself in
Hillary as
to how we can get more women involved
because I don't feel like I'm an expert in
the topic.
Thank you for sharing and also your personal
project that was inspiring to hear as well.
And I think we should also think aboutsome
of these things thatwe're doing
these efforts
also how we can extend those efforts to
other communities as well.
So I think that's a good experience, but we
also need to see what we are doing at the
global level,how we can connect
withcommunities,people in the global south
global majority.
We heard aboutyesterday,I think,about the
brain drain from
some of these countries and
maybe their alternatives to these are just
some thoughts that have gone through my own
mind and how we can start to think about
that.
So it's a kind of challenge to everybody.
Arun, you wanted to go and Hillary after
that, yeah.
Thanks. You want to go first?
No, go ahead. I'll be more interested.
Go for it. Yeah. Thank you very much.
All right.
As a mother
I wish I could say I have been successful
in encouraging my daughter in STEM.
Utter failure, unfortunately, however, I do
think it is important for her and her peers
and my son and his peers to see me and
diverse people in STEM industries.
I think we have some systemic issues to
address andunfortunately,many women go into
computer
science and they go into STEM, but they
don't stay there.
The way we socialize our daughters is, I
think, very much an issue.
Their pressure is from family members,
from different generations.
So we have to address some structural
things abouthow we raise daughters and
how we increase
diversity.
I was privileged to be part of the study
thatDemetris Cheetam referenced earlier
Demetris
from GitHub, referenced the diversity, equity
and inclusion study that was conducted in
open source.
It was one of the first research projects
thatwe did at the Linux Foundation and
while
80% of people feel welcome in open
source,those WHOdo not are from
typically underrepresented
communities.
And it's incumbent upon all of us to
increase opportunities forpeople from
underrepresented
communities to be seen.
And I applaud the effort that organizations
take to increase diversity on panels.
The Linux Foundation has a policy at our
events thatthere are no all male panels
that there
must be diverse representation at least
one person identifying asa woman
to have free
child care on site at our events that
encourage parents to come with their children.
Yes.
Our executive director, Jim Zemlin, traveled
all around the world with his daughter, WHO
benefited frombeing in the room andhaving
thatopportunity to be cared for
during times
when Jim simply couldn't be there.
So it's a terrific opportunity, something
structural that organizations can implement.
So we do need to be seen to be believed in
every opportunity to increase visibility.
And I love the Wikipedia example.
To increase that visibility, it's really
inspiring.
I want to actually go back to what Hillary
was saying.
Back in the Bay Area,I run a non-profit
and
that non-profit teaches STEM workshops for
younger kids. And these are workshops like
Minecraft modding, Raspberry Pi, Python.
And we have done that for over a decade.
At that age, the target range is about
five to ten years of age.
And we see about 40% of girls coming over
there in those workshops.
And when I go to a tech conference, that
40% goes down to 10%.
So somewhere along the pipeline, to your
point, there is a systemic problem.
There is a structural problem,because
these girls don't see,or non-male
don't see their
role models up at that level.
So I think the impetus is upon us to fix
that.
So my recommendation would be, I try to
work with girls WHO code, black girls, code.
Think about what are these local
communities in your neighborhood.
How could maybe you volunteer for them?
How you could encourage girls, light a fire
under them so that they feel more excited
and tell them what could that journey look
like?
Because a lot of the time, they're looking
for that, showing the path, that this is what
it could look like.
I use my wife as an example, that, yeah, she
has struggled through it, but this is where
she is now, where she's a very successful
career woman.
So the path to success is never straight.
I think showing them, telling them, and
even your own story goes along.
So that's one. The second one is, I think,
uncle, you touched upon this.
Be very, very careful about your
unconscious bias.
Conscious bias, maybe yes, we can address it,
but be very careful about your unconscious
bias.
Be very aware of it
that am I unconsciously not including
women or people of different
gender?
So one of the things, for example, what we
do in my team meeting, my work, for example,
we take a pause, like, hey, you know what,
everybody has been talking, everybody WHO's
been talking, be quiet.
I want people WHO have not been talking, I
want to create space for them, because people
sometimes need five, 10, 15 seconds to
gather their thought.
They want people to stop, but then the
discussion goes to different points.
Before we conclude a point,make sure in
your team meetings you're creating a space
that
all right, have we heard all the diverse
opinions?
Because diversity is what makes it rich,
diversity what makes it inclusive.
So I think that's an element I would say.
And the third maybe thing I want to say
here is
I believe Cloud Native Computing
Foundation
has this program called as Zero to Merge,
and the big developers across the world, and
again,big focus on diversity
they're the teach you how to send your
first pull request.
How do you make your first contribution?
So SDGs can be solved by open source, but
you need to know at least how to send your
first pull request to start contributing
over there.
So I think there are different levels by
which you can impact it.
So take a look, see what works.
Great, thank you so much for more really
practical things to consider.
We have 15 minutes left, and I promise to
open up to, oh yes, good, good.
All right, I think I saw movement over here
first, so in the first row, and then in the
second row, and then over there, the three
there.
Yeah.
Hi, I'm Vinny Jejswal, great topic, and
something which is very close to my heart too.
There are some initiatives thatwere talked
about
so I do want to share some experiences
that I have had.
So one of the initiatives at Anita B. Org
is Grace Hopper Conference.
So as part of Grace Hopper Conference, we
have this open source day, which allows us
to connect a lot of participants WHO
are the first time contributors to the
open source
projects.
So we actively work with many companies in
this space WHO are big contributors and big
open source players, because they can bring
the project and have the first, good first
issues for first time contributors.
So their companies are playing a big role
in active participation, as well as from the
foundation, we are playing active role to
connect those first time contributors, the
talent from diverse backgrounds to those
opportunities.
And there were a lot of success stories
that were created.
Some people found good jobs, some people
found good home for their projects.
People also found contributors,because
sometimes asa maintainer,it's like,I learned
right?
Sometimes you get burned out, so you need
awesome contributors too.
So that's one of the success stories I
want to share
that more companies should be encouraged
to participate in such foundations in such
initiatives.
The second part is Linux Foundation.
As Hillary mentioned,a lot of our
conferences thatwe do,by the way
I'm also the chair
for LFA and Data Foundation Tech.
So speaking fromthat experience,we try to
make sure that
we have diverse community participating
as speakers.
In fact, in the conference that we just did
in AI dev in Paris, we selected speakers
from many different countries so that they
can have voice, because when you talk about
generated AI,taking the main stage
you cannot succeed if you don't have
diverse voices.
diverse voices also means thathaving
underrepresented communities from
different countries.
So those are some of the things I want to
plug in, that there are good momentum going
on in the community,and companies should
learn fromthat experience
and I just wanted to
share this forsomebody WHOwants to
contribute,and I had conversations yesterday
even with
Arun,a lot of things we can do together
whenwe bring forces from
different communities
together. So, yeah, I just wanted to share
that.
Thank you. Thank you.
I think it's also great to share best
practice,because that
can be an inspiration to others
so it's good to hear about some
initiatives that are appreciated.
Thank you for your patience on that.
Great panel, and it's fun to see so many
women raise their hands, ironically.
I felt inclined to say a couple things.
First of all, thank you for creating grants
for women in the cybersecurity space.
I think you're going to be excited to know
you have two doctorate of engineering
cybersecurity
women candidates sitting right here.
And it's been a journey,to say the
least,but I think that
supporting women in the space
because there are only a few of us in our
own cohort.
We also met in our cohort and started a
startup of cybersecurity in the space.
I wanted to add another piece thatI did
not hear
which is there are women in the space
of STEM as well, especially in cybersecurity
and so forth that are NAI, WHO are seeking
to raise funds for
their cybersecurity companies or their
companies' startups in general.
There are challenges in that space within
that space because of the climate culture of
raising funds.
And I have experienced this firsthand in
other sectors, let alone in this sector.
And I think thatif there were to be
opportunities where
women-focused investment opportunities
in STEM,that being one,whether on the
corporate side,angels,et cetera,secondly
I think
the mentorship piece,we don't see,you
know,young women
I've mentored a few in the space
I have social media platforms to turn to.
How many times do you see women in the
space of STEM,or engineering,et cetera
computer
science,WHO are being put on a platform of
the work that
we're doing behind the scenes
of the impact we're having,and the
direction we're taking things in
pioneers in the space.
So kudos to you guys foraddressing thatas
being an important piece
whether that's through
Wikipedia page or any other type of
platform,or even throughthe UN
to showcase the direction
we're going in and the progress we're
making.
So I think those are really instrumental
topics that we should take more seriously.
I think this is one of the more close to
my heart aswell topics that
you guys are addressing
on this panel.
We should have more of these, and it's nice
to see a diversity of men and women WHO are
addressing this topic, not just women.
So I just wanted to kind of capture,we have
plenty of ideas andthings we can go and
implement
collectively, but I think it has to be on
a larger scale if we're really seeking to
create not only the labor shortage to
address that,especially in cyber aswe know
but more
so even women WHO are not young, but women
are in range WHO chose to go into the field.
I went into the engineering field later in
life, because I did not think of myself in
the field when I was younger as this being
something that I would see myself in.
And later in life,I realized,no,I really
love this field,I really can add and
contribute
to it.
So I think those are things that we should
definitely continue to have conversations
and actually produce results in.
So thank you for that opportunity.
Thank you so much, I agree.
I don't know if anybody had any comment.
Yeah, we can have some comment.
And then I know that you're -- yeah, the one
comment that I would add, I've done a bunch
of work in the VC in angel space aswell
and this is part of what Aron was saying
earlier.
There's this natural cultural bias
forventure funds and
private equity to invest in people
that look like andact like the people
they've already invested in and
have already turned
them returns.
And a woman founder will show up
differently than the,forgive the term
typical tech bro.
And we need to make space to be able to
value -- I mean
companies are getting ridiculous
valuations on the back of a 10-slide
presentation, right?
So there isn't that much actual technical
depth to the analysis.
We need to figure out a way to make these
rooms a safe space aswell for
women entrepreneurs
to be able to get access to the same
funding.
And look, everybody knows the start-up is
a bit of a long shot anyway, but providing
access,especially financial access
is one of those key preconditions to us
being able
to create the right environment for
diverse thoughts to get us out of the
problems that
we have today. We can't fix stuff using
the same thing that caused the problem.
We need to introduce more diverse voices
to the room.
>> Yeah, maybe just a minor comment.
I think, frankly, the responsibility is on
the males to create that space.
I think it's a serious responsibility for
us, you know, because there are more males in
this space.
So to allow that space so that more women
can participate, some to back off, or some
to say no,this space is consciously
forwomen or non-male people,and I think that
responsibility
lies upon us, whether we are in the tech,
whether we are in the VC, whether we are in
the entrepreneurship, wherever it is, so
it's a collective responsibility.
>> Hi, I should go over here.
>> Oh, there we go. Hi. Thank you so much,
panelists, for a great panel here.
My name is Jonas Rosland, I am head of
OSBO and open source community at CIQ.
I'm also executive director at hit save,a
video game preservation and
history nonprofit.
My question to you is about the growth of
open source community and diversification of
the communities andthe people within
them,and what I see as
one part of mitigating potential
burnout as well of maintainers by
lessening some of the load on them.
So when I work with open source communities,
my work has always been twofold.
I do technical knowledge
sharing,explaining how technology works
making sure people understand
that.
And then the other side is that I mentor
and enable others with non-code roles.
And I believe strongly thatidentifying
areas where
people can contribute in non-code roles
within open source communities can grow
andstrengthen the open source communities
reach
more people, increase diversity, furthering
the growth and help with sustainability of
the projects.
So my question based off of that
is what types of initiatives have you seen
within the projects
that you've been working on when
it comes to increasing growth of the
community in non-code
roles? I was going to ask you to come in
since -- Sure.
You raised an excellent point andI think
thatwe heard yesterday
or maybe it was earlier
today, I can't remember, that open source
is a culture, right?
It's more than just writing code.
This is what you're getting at.
One of the most powerful tools thatI've
seen for
this is adding clarity to projects about
what the roles andresponsibilities are
that
are needed to make the project successful.
And when you actually think about it and write
them down, there's going to be a bunch of
things there that aren't just about
committing code, right?
So whenyou lay out what the opportunities
are asa starting point,for sure
then people
can find space in there that they maybe
didn't know existed.
And then it also gives people a little bit
of confidence and leverage to say, hey, if
you have this, maybe I could do this other
thing that you didn't put on the list too.
And so in order for that to work, you have
to have a project that has well-defined roles
and responsibilities, a sense of
governance, a mission and purpose, right?
And then you'll attract people WHOare
attracted to the mission andpurpose
even if they never
write a line of code.
They might just be an evangelist for
the project or they might work in
integration settings
where they use that to further some other
objective.
I think we are, yes, we are running out of
time, I think.
But nobody has, no, nobody's waiting.
I think we have time to just make a final
statement, and I would go, everybody can
know.
So everyone you go first,and then a final
statement fromeverybody
so we have to close.
Code is only 20% of what happens in a
project.
So there's a lot of scope in thatsense
fornon-code efforts
and CNCF has this contributor
ex-working group, where they explicitly
focus on that task.
How do we bring more people?
How do we mentor more people?
Health management, evangelist, running the
meeting, triage, bug issues, training, docs,
testing, all sorts of stuff that needs to
happen.
So there is a explicit focus.
I'll let you go first. Thank you.
I agree with everything Arun has just said,
and I want to say that I am a testament to
the non-coders among us,and unlike my
colleague Omkar
I did not make a kernel commit.
I have never written a line of code in my
life.
But I have been an open source for eight
years, and I have -- yes.
And I must say how welcoming the community
has been, how stimulating and inspiring a
community this is, and there are many, many
roles for people WHO bring different talents
in communications and marketing and
program management.
This is a space that can include everybody,
and I'm very fortunate to be an example of
true openness for people of all
backgrounds.
To draw the thread again,to connect the
open source to the why,like
why are you doing
it? What are you trying to accomplish?
Everybody has something that they're
trying to accomplish.
For us, it's dissemination of open
knowledge, and that's the draw.
I think that being clear and being true to
your mission, and then doing that in the most
open way that you can, so we work in the
open, we have conversations on IRC.
If you have gray hair like me, you might
remember what that is.
We have, you know, our tickets are open on
a cycle fabricator.
Our code is all in open.
The conversations, the documentation is
open on technical wikis.
And I think that,like
embracing openness at every level can only
empower you to support
your mission aslong asyou're remained
focused on,like
what are you trying to accomplish?
And then what can you marshal to do that?
And the more open you are
the better chance you have of attracting
other people to support
your project.
Somebody had asked me a little whileago
what I found sointeresting about
working at the
OpenSSF.
And without hyperbole, I can genuinely say,
by working here, it allows me to positively
impact 8 billion people. No asterisk, no
footnote, full stop.
So I have a call to action for everyone.
ASG Mariano yesterday asked us to all
think about
how we can carry forward the SDGs after
these two days that we spent together.
So asan engineer,I'd like you to think
aboutthe preconditions thatare required for
the
SDGs to be successful.
And I'd like you to consider two that are
incredibly important.
As I mentioned earlier, security.
We cannot accomplish any of the SDGs
without being secure.
And the second one is safety, in the sense
of creating safe spaces to allow everybody
to participate,irrespective of what gender
they identify in
which part of the world they
hail from, what their economic situation
may be.
And by satisfying those two preconditions,
I think we set up all the right steps for
us to be incredibly successful in
achieving the SDGs.
And the last call to action,I've been
doing this fora while
but I also know what I don't
know. Or sometimes I don't know what I
don't know.
If you have any comments or feedback from
me afterwards, find me.
I'd love to hear from you.
>> On car,you made my life easy because
you captured what I was going to say to
post the
panel, the call for action, and much more
eloquently than I think I could have managed
with a six-hour jet lag at this time of
day.
So I just want to thank the panel, all the
panelists, for performing at this last sort
of the time slot thatI talked about,and
the audience
because I was panicking yesterday
on day one at 4pm, I was panicking, thinking
about that I was going to sit here on day
two at the 43530 slot,but the audience has
been great,it's a full room still
and great
questions. So thank you so much, and give
yourselves a round of applause, thank you.
>> This is the first selfie of the conference,
we should have had one for every panel.
You have to tag a lot of people now, if
you take the background, you have to tag.
>> Thank you, thank you guys.
We kept one of our best speakers, and our
best panel for the last, because we wanted
that last.
I know it's been a lot of ideas, a lot of
discussions, a lot of recommendations.
I hope you get the best out of these two
days.
I learned somany things I haven't
learned,I hope a lot of connections and
new project
new initiative will start after all this
connection that took place today.
So this is the end of our official program,
we have now a short closing ceremony.
So my pleasure to come in, Mr.
Bernardo Mayando Jr.
Assistant Secretary General and Chief
Information
Technology Officer of the UN.
>> Thank you, Omar. I think we need a
round of applause for Omar's work.
Thank you very much, Omar.
I know that Omar and the team worked hard
behind the scenes to make this happen, so
it's very, very, thank you for that, and I
wanted to thank the partners, Kenya, Germany,
the Office of the Tech andVoid,Open
Forum,Europe,and all the other partners that
really
joined forces,including the digital public
alliance
that really joined force to bring
not only these to life, but also to bring
the reboot to Earth, which was a partnership
also with the Office of Salesforce as well
as FAO.
But I also think you deserve a round of
applause, and thank you.
Without you,and the second day is still
full of energy
in spite of the time difference
so kudos.
Thank you very much, and from the feedback
I got, and the interactions I had with some
of you, at least I only heard good things.
But if anybody has some improvement
feedback to give,please raise your hand
or remain
silent forever. Excellent.
We have a vote by a clinician that this was
a great conference, so thank you, everyone.
I really am closing, and also to make sure
that we all come out from these two days,
and then the tomorrow's side event, and to
make sure that this trip is worthwhile, and
the time you spend is worthwhile, we will
certainly put some of the ideas that you
discussed,the recommendations thatyou
discussed
and if there's anything else you want to
add, please feel free to do so to put in a
white paper to ensure that these moments,
the ideas, the commitments that we, in the
last, in yesterday and today we had, will be
what we will use to chart the next phase
of these great partnership and
great collaboration.
But I have an ask. I mean, I think I
mentioned in the beginning, I have two asks.
The first ask is capacity, so please, let's,
in these recommendations, let's make sure
that the continuous capacity building,both
internal withyour own organization
but also
how you share thatand how do you bring
this global south,how do you,we learn from
each
other,from global south to global north in
terms of capacity,it's some,I mean
my hope
is thatthese recommendations that,that
will include this element,the human element
because
you are here today, not because of machines,
because you made it a commitment, a passion
and a drive,that open source has to be
something thatdelivers value
supports development
be thatyour own countries or your own
organization,but most important
creates impact.
So the human element is extremely,extremely
important,so I do hope that
as we go forward
we together continue to invest in
thathuman element
capacity of people to continue to
provide and deliver the great and excellent
work, but also the great and excellent tools
that deliver thatreally excellent impact
especially impact on the sustainable
development
goals. That's my first ask.
My second ask is for the tools themselves.
Today morning, I mentioned you all are either
a library or a tool in the open source.
Imagine you are a little library of open
source,a tool of open source and
maybe some of you
are well supported and there's not.
Maybe some of you have a structure like an
Android structure thatsupports that
open source
in a way thatnobody really has to worry
too much aboutit
because you just have to adopt
Android and then you know that maintenance
is taken care of.
Like in many places, you have those WHO
have and those WHO have not.
And with that imagination that you are one
of the open source libraries or open source
tools that is out there and imagine that you
are not as fortunate as Android and you don't
have thatyou are not resourced,you are not
maintained and
the entity or the person that
actually created you somehow got another
job or just couldn't keep up with the scale
up and you are neglected.
That goes to my second ask.
Let's all make sure that first of all we
know which ones are neglected and open source
tools neglected.
And we make our commitment, bring the passion
that we have and has been driving you all
along until now to ensure thatthe open
source tools thatare neglected but
are still critical
to infrastructure thatare still part of
the digital public infrastructure that
is still
used,they have the attention thatthey need
to ensure that
they continue to deliver great
service to the world, to the applications
that support, to the delivery of the benefits
that they do deliver in the space that
they operate.
That's my second ask.
So let's work together to make sure that
open source is well resourced.
It's well maintained andfor those WHO
do not have the fortunate element or this
fortunate
lack,if I can call it thatway,to have
those,that full resourced structure such as
Android
and using this example of Android because
it's the one that comes to mind today, not
because I'm targeting Google,to make sure
thatwe asa community
we leave no one behind.
We talk about leaving no one behind as
humans.
I'm talking about leaving no one behind as
open source tools.
And with that, I want once again thank you
for being here, thank all the team and the
support team, the unsung heroes that work
behind the scenes to make sure these happen
and thank you again forthe ideas,the
commitment,your energy,the action
and I want to see
that going forward. Thank you.
Thank you very much Bernardo,our last
speaker forthe two days
so we kept the best for
last. I've been deep single the UN
technology envoy for the secretary.
Thank you, Omar, so the send-off is for me,
but there's, I believe there's still more.
There's a reception,thank you to the
Ellipse Foundation formaking that,not today
okay.
But there's the fringe, fringe events,
tomorrow, 14 of them.
So the fun continues, but formal part is
coming to an end.
And I want to start with thank yous, thank
you to all of you for making the time, taking
two days out of your busy schedules
andbeing here at the UN withus,so a big
big thank
you to you,thank you to our
co-hosts,Germany andKenya
thank you to my colleagues from
the OSCT, thank you to the team, Matusa, to
Ezra, to Brian at the back, Medi, Moritz,
wherever you are, there you are, and Omar,
and many, many more WHO are not in the room
but WHO work to make this happen.
So over the past two days, we've seen some
panels, we've looked at some great issues,
AI andopen source,in the work of the
high-level advisory body on AI
we've looked at openness
and not just, you know, taken the open source
paradigm directly cut and paced into AI.
There's a lot of work ahead,but I think
the panel was quite illuminating
there's some
directions that we have for homework, what
accounts for openness, what is needed to do
open work on AI withresponsibility,looking
at the risk
but also keeping the opportunities
and the missed uses in mind.
I think we had good discussion around
definitions
good discussion around the use of open
source
in governments.
There again,there's a lot of homework
becausesome governments,as we saw with
the example
of Zendes from Germany, have put in place
solid structures, but as Bernardo reminded
us,you know,there is a digital divide
there aswell
how can we take some of those capacities
to the rest of the world,in a sense
catalyze the creation of more impactful
ospos around
the world. There's a lot of work ahead of
us, homework as well.
You also saw how the UN system is organizing
itself,you know,sister agencies,UNDP
UNICEF
ITU, FOW, and others have spoken to you
about their open source work.
We will obviously take thatforward,there's
a balance thatneeds to be stuck
but in the
last two years, we've come quite some
distance at the UN.
And then you also saw how in a strategic
sense your work meets the aspirations for
the STGs.
The presence of the Deputy Secretary General
was emblematic of that connection, and we
also spoke about human capacity.
I mean,if we can't get the term global
majority in another sense
just by going to GitHub
we can get the sense of, you know, how is that
majority shaping up, you know, WHO are the
top contributors today to building and
maintaining open source.
So it's in our collective interest to
think aboutthis opportunity
this capacity in the
global majority and make it work for the
STGs.
The Secretary General's idea of one million
digital champions for the STGs, leveraging
digital technologies
responsibly,impactfully
across disciplines to move the needle on
the
17 goals that we have for the planet,
regardless of levels of development.
You also saw how the space is uniquely
multistakeholder,different people
different sectors come
together.
We again have homework there
we have to demonstrate how there is no
contradiction between the
work thatgovernments do,whether it is in
multi-lateral forums or otherwise
multi-nationally,and
the work of different stakeholders in and
outside the open source community.
We also saw how this is not aspiration that
the work you do, this is real, that we are
lugging here into vibrant, functioning,
impactful ecosystems.
So this is no theory, this is practice.
And I like us to think about the next
iteration.
We had this 10x lift over the past one
year,Bernardo has indicated some lines for
the future.
And I think I was struck by one of the
remarks today in a bilateral meeting that
let's think
beyond events to a process, to continued
action.
So how can,throughout the year,we can take
some of these ideas forward
can we come together
in groups to take some of this work
forward?
Can we make sure thatthere is some
touchpoint at the summit of the future
there are some
anxieties,some concerns
is the digital world going to turn more
governmental or intergovernmental?
I don't believe so,but let's show that
multi-stakeholder approaches are the
strongest way of taking
forward digital issues,their governance,the
leveraging of digital technologies for
development.
So through this continued work, and let's
make sure that we move along these x's of one
taking the core capacity thatis embodied
in OSPOS
and that's the title of our conference
our symposium. How can we take that core
capacity to more places around the world?
Second, how can we build, mentor, train,
the human resource, particularly that works
across disciplines,so thatit doesn't
remain just a coding paradigm
and I'd say it doesn't
remain only a masculine paradigm,how we
can make it more diverse
more diverse co-creation.
I think we have ourselves in the UN work
to do on that
and I think next year we'll strive
to do things differently there.
And third,how can we network these efforts
how can we make one plus one equal eleven
so that we create our own network effects
when we think of this community, eventually
a one million SDGs champions,all working
under the umbrella of digital commons
so foundation
being open source,but the next layer of
DPGs,DPIs
and then the aspirational layer that
we have of data and AI commons, so that we
build a better world that is less driven by
fragmentation andrivalry on technology
more knitted together at the service of
the Sustainable
Development Goals,and providing a safety
net when
governments can't talk to each other
when borders come in the way,there is a
community WHOspeaks the same code,if I may
WHO are
committed to similar values of openness, of
transparency, of democratic participation
in the making and working of technology, so
we truly bring the world together by using
this umbrella of digital commons.
I thank you foryour support,for your
encouragement
it's been highly energizing to be in this
room these past two days and following the
debates even when I was not in the room, so
thank you very much, and have a good
evening.
Thank you andthank you forthe closing
remarks
so just absolute last word is to thank
everybody
a lot of work,as you can imagine,went
intothis first,our co-host
government of Kenya
government of Germany, but OFU, and OSPO++,
WHO spent a lot, many, many hours online.
And also,thank all the team behind,the
team UN has been working very hard,and with
this
thank you everybody forcoming,and
appointment is taken fornext year,OSPO for
good 2025.
Thank you.
[Applause]
[BLANK_AUDIO]